The wise person, who is well-established in the self, should not unsettle the minds of ordinary
ignorant people who are involved in action with attachment, but should duly perform his own duties
with a sane and a balanced mind. (26)
(172) O the Great Archer! Just as we should not give heavy food to a child which can with difficultty
only, feed itself at the mother’s breast, because the child cannot digest that heavy food;
(173) Similarly we should not, even in a playful mood, advise action-less-ness to a man whose level
of understanding is limited to action only.
(174) There we should guide him to benevolent action and should praise that only, and should show
him how to act righteously though we may be free from bondage of action.
(175) When the wise man acts in this way among others who are attached to action, there will not be
any bondage of action affecting him.
(176) This is just as in the play of a magician, he shows many illusory persons like King and Queen
by wearing false garbs, though he has no concept of his being the king or queen, male or female.
पक
ृ तेः िकयमाणािन गुणैः कमािण सवशः|
अहंकारिवमूढा मा कताऽहिमित म यते
The foolish person whose mind is confused by egoism thinks - “I am the doer”, while all actions
are being performed by the qualities of the Prakruti (or Nature) herself. (27)
(177) Just see, O, the Great Archer! If we take the burden of others on our head, how can we not be
suppressed under it?
(178) Similarly, the foolish man says through his deluded mind that he is the doer of actions while
all actions good or evil are taking place by the natural order.
(179) This secret science of unattached action should not be revealed to him who is foolishly
confused by egoism and has but a very limited understanding.
(180) But let it be; O Arjuna, I will tell you the best thing for you. Please listen with attention.
त विव ु महाबाहो गुणकमिवभागयोः|
गुणा गुणेषु वत त इित म वा न स जते
He, however, who has true insight into the respective spheres of these (three) qualities and
actions, knows that it is the interplay of qualities only and does not get motivated to attachment. (28)
(181) In the consciousness of the people of self-knowledge, there is no place for that illusion or
