Maya, in which all the actions become manifest.
(182) They function in their body in an aloofness of observation, by discarding the pride of physical
body and going beyond the activities of the said qualities.
(183) Therefore, just as the Sun is not caught in the activities of all creatures, they are not touched by
the bondage of Karma, though they are in the body.
पक
ृ तेगुणस मूढाः स ज ते गुणकमसु|
तानक
ृ निवदो म दान् क
ृ निव न िवचालयेत्
Those who are fully deluded by the qualities or modes of the Prakruti, remain bound to the said
qualities and their functions; The man of perfect knowledge should not unsettle the mind of those who
are not having comprehensive knowledge. (29)
(184) Here, he who becomes confused by the qualities and the influence of Prakriti becomes
attached and caught by action;
(185) He by his own compulsion, takes upon himself the responsibility of others', actions which are
being done by the organs according to the ‘qualities’ of Nature.
मिय सवािण कमािण सं य या या मचेतसा|
िनराशीिनममो भू वा यु य व िवगत वरः
Therefore, dedicating all actions to me with your mind fixed on me, thus free from hope and sense
of possession and my-ness, you should fight, getting cured of mental fever of animosity. (30)
(186) Therefore perform all your prescribed duties and offer them to me, at the same time keeping
your mind steady in your own Atman.
(187) And never allow the pride to enter into your mind that “a certain duty is there and I will do it,
and I am the doer”.
(188) You should not be a slave to your body, you should drop all the desires, and then enjoy all the
things that will come along in the course of natural events.
(189) Now pick up and take the bow in your hand, climb on this chariot and embrace bravery with a
balanced mind.
(190) Establish fame in this world, enhance the prestige of the performance of one's own duty, and
relieve this earth from this burden.
(191) O Partha, now be free of doubt, pay attention to this battle and do not talk about anything else
