स शं चे ते व याः पक
ृ ते ानवानिप|
पक
ृ ितं याि त भूतािन िनगहः िक
ं क र यित
Even the man full of knowledge behaves in everyday life according to his natural tendencies. All
the beings follow their own inborn tendencies. Of what use is any outward control? (33)
(202) So, even the wise man having self-knowledge should not lightly pamper his sense-organs even
for entertainment.
(203) Will it be possible to fondle a serpent or befriend a tiger successfully, or can a powerful
poison be digested?
(204) Just see - when playfully a fire is kindled it suddenly flares up and becomes uncontrolled.
Similarly it is no good playing with these organs.
(205) Even otherwise, why should we accumulate various means of pleasures for this body which is
subject to destruction?
(206) Why should we try to maintain this body which has a beginning and an end, by collecting all
the riches with great efforts?
(207) Why should we nourish this body by taking all the troubles and strains to accumulate all kinds
of possessions, even flouting the rules of conduct prescribed as duty for us?
(208) This body is only a collection of five elements and will in the end return to the five elements,
Then where will we get the fruit of all the strain we have undertaken?
(209) Therefore just to satisfy the body is nothing but an evident denudation; and therefore one
should not pay attention to it.
इि दय येि दय याथ राग ेषौ यवि थतौ|
तयोन वशमाग छे ौ य प रपि थनौ
Attraction and repulsion are rooted naturally in all sense-objects. Man should not allow himself
to be swayed by them, because they are the two principal enemies standing in the way of his
liberation. (34)
(210) Normally when we give to the senses the things they like, the mind will feel satisfied.
(211) But that is like the company of deceitful tricksters, who create confidence while you are
walking in a crowded city street, but kill you when you go out on a lonely path.
(212) My dear, there may be a poison which is sweet and we may relish it, but if you see the result,
