to call itself the maid-servant of the hope and remains alive on that concept.
(249) Moreover, enticement has great respect for the desire and anger; and 'ego' has regular business
transactions with them and thus that ego makes the world dance according to its whim.
(250) These two give great honour to hypocrisy which dissects truth and takes out its guts, and fills it
with the grass-bunches of misdeeds.
(251) These two have denuded peace by taking away her clothes, and have decorated the Maya who
is of the untouchable caste of Mangs, and they have spoiled the whole groups of pious sages.
(252) These desire and anger have destroyed the base of discretion, have skinned alive the
asceticism, and have broken the neck of peacefulness while it is alive.
(253) These have cut down the forest of contentment, toppled down the castles of firm determination
and have uprooted the plant of joy and thrown it away.
(254) These have disturbed the inner order of self-knowledge, wiped out the written message of
happiness and have put the fire of three-fold troubles in the hearts of people.
(255) As soon as they touch the body they reach to the core of the soul and then are not controlled
even by the God Brahma and others.
(256) These sit near the consciousness, the moving principle, in the same rank with knowledge and
therefore if they once get going with all force, they cannot be controlled.
(257) These drown the seekers without the necessity of water, burn without fire, and strangulate
them without uttering a single word.
(258) These kill without weapon, tie down without rope, and kill a man of knowledge, by taking an
oath.
(259) These catch in a rut without mud, ensnare without a net, and are not beaten by anybody
because they are very strong inwardly.
धूमेनािवयते वि हयथादश मलेन च|
यथो बेणावृतो गभ तथा तेनेदमावृतम्
As the fire is covered by smoke, mirror is covered by dirt, and embryo by the omniotic fluid so is
this ‘knowledge' covered by this (desire-anger duality). (38)
(260) Just as the root of sandalwood is surrounded by a serpent, or as the sack of omniotic fluid
covers the child in the womb.
