मनस तु परा बुि य बु ेः परत तु सः
The senses are said (by people in the past) to be higher and subtler (than the body) and the mind
as greater than the senses, greater than the mind is the intellect and who is greater than the intellect is
he (the Atman). (42)
(269) Then the speed of the mind will be slowed down, and the intellect will be freed and by this,
the support of these sinners will be broken!
एवं बु ेः परं बु वा सं त या मानमा मना|
जिह शतुं महाबाहो काम पं दुरासदम्
O the warrior of great arms, knowing that the Atman is beyond and greater than the intellect you
should still the lower mind by the higher mind which is Atman and thus kill the enemy in the form of
desire, who is otherwise hard to conquer. (43)
(270) If these two are got rid of from the inner consciousness, then know that they are without doubt
destroyed, just as there is no mirage in the absence of rays.
(271) So, if the desire and anger are gone, know that the kingdom of heaven is attained. Then he
enjoys his own happiness, by himself.
(272) This state is the matter of great secrecy between the Guru and the disciple, where the Jeeva is
in close embrace with the spirit or shiva (- Pinda - Jeeva, Pada spirit or Shiva). You should
attain this unity and never deviate from it at any time.”
(273) Sanjaya said - “O King, please listen. Thus the king of all Adepts, the husband of the goddess
Laxmi, the god of gods, said.
(274) Now that "immeasurable" (Ananta) will speak something about the ancient times, and the son
of Pandu will ask a question.” (Dnyandeva says-)
(275) “The high level of the subject of that talk and the captivating sweetness of their dialogue, will
give the greatest pleasure of listening to the listeners.
(276) So says Dnyandeva, (the servant) of Nivruttinath, that by increasing the intent of listening, O
sirs, you should enjoy the dialogue between the Lord Hari and Partha.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे, कमयोगो नाम तृतीयोऽ यायः
Thus , in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of knowldge of Brahman, in the scripture
