(90) Then we have to understand the particular action as pertaining to the Varna (caste) and Ashrama
(stage such as bachelor, married person, a retired person living in a forest, and a sanyasin),
together with the utility thereof.
(91) Afterwards, we have to understand the action which is prohibited. If we know this, then
naturally there will not be any confusion.
(92) Otherwise the scope of the action as such is so vast that the whole world is dependent on
action. But let it be. Please listen to the recognizing signs of the action under reference.
कम यकम यः प येदकमिण च कम यः|
स बुि मान् मनु येषु स यु ः क
ृ नकमक
ृ त्
He who sees inaction implied in action and action hidden in inaction is a wise man among men,
he is a yogi who performs all actions perfectly. (18)
(93) He who sees his state of inaction even if he is performing all activities, and has no expectation
about the attachment to action and the fruit;
(94) And he who has no other reason in performing action except ‘duty’, should be known to be one
in whom the state of inaction is fully imbibed.
(95) He who is doing all his activities perfectly in this way, should be known by these signs, to be a
man of wisdom.
(96) For example a man standing on the bank, sees his reflection in water but doubtlessly recognizes
that he is different from that reflection.
(97) Or a man sitting in a boat, sees the trees on the shore to be moving back fast, but when he looks
carefully he says that the trees are fixed.
(98) Similarly he who is busy in all activities but realizes that all that business is only apparent,
knows himself as without any action.
(99) And judged by the rising and setting of the sun, the sun appears to be moving though he is not
moving. Similarly even while doing all actions, there is absence of action.
(100) Such a man appears similar to all other men but the involvement of usual human nature is not
applicable to him. This is like the Sun not being sunk though his reflection is in the water.
(101) He sees the world without looking, performs everything without being a ‘doer,’ and
experiences every object without attachment.
