(108) He has such a growing love for supreme inner joy that he surrenders his cravings together with
his ego.
(109) Therefore, he is happy with whatever comes along in the course of time, and has no disparity
in his mind to say that something is his own and something is not.
(110) He becomes one with whatever he sees, and becomes that which he hears. (There is no
resistance to anything).
(111) He is himself the distance which he walks with his feet and the words, which he speaks with
his mouth. Thus he becomes the very activities which he does.
(112) He does not even feel that the whole universe is separate from him. Now, what action is going
to affect him and in what way?
(113) For him nothing is so separate from him as to give scope for any untoward feeling to rise.
Then why should we say in so many words that he is not jealous?
(114) Therefore, he being free in all respects remains free of action though active and free of Gunas
(qualities) though appearing with the qualities. There is no doubt about this.
गतसंग य मु य ानावि थतचेतसः|
य ायाचरतः कम समगं पिवलीयते
When he has no identification with the body or anything, when he is free from attachment, and his
mind is in the state of self-knowledge, all his actions melt away when he performs all actions as an
offering in the universal cycle of sacrifice. (23)
(115) He is within his body but one feels that he is a spirit, tested with the touch-stone and proved to
be the Absolute Brahman.
(116) Even in this state if he casually performs such actions as sacrifices, all these actions end
themselves in himself -
(117) Just like clouds which appear in the sky in a wrong season, are dissipated without giving rain.
(118) Similarly, though he performs the actions ordained by Vedas, properly, those actions become
absorbed in himself because he has no sense of separateness regarding them.
ब ापणं ब हिवब ा नौ ब णा हतम्|
ब ैव तेन ग त यं ब कमसमािधना
In the practice of seeing Brahman everywhere as a form of sacrifice, Brahman is the ladle (by
