which the sacrificial ghee etc. is offered to the fire), Brahman is the material sacrificed, Brahman is
the fire, Brahman is the person performing the sacrifice, and Brahman itself is the action of pouring.
Finally, Brahman is the goal to be reached by him whose state of mind is the trance in Brahman in the
act of that sacrifice. (24)
(119) Then he has no concept of separateness of offerings, or of the man who offers oblations in the
fire, or of some God as the receiver of the fruit of the sacrifice.
(120) He looks upon all the things, connected with sacrifice, such as the person who performs the
sacrifice, the act of sacrifice, the material offered, the Mantras which are recited, as
indestructible as the Atman.
(121) Therefore, he who understands properly that action is just the Brahman only, has, in his duty
the state of inaction undisturbed. O, the great archer!
(122) Now there are others who have lost the childhood of lack of discrimination and have married
the bride named asceticism and then have started the kindling of fire of yoga.
दैवमेवापरे य ं योिगनः पयुपासते|
ब ा नावपरे य ं य ेनैवोपजु ित
Other yogis duly offer sacrifice only in the shape of worship to gods. Others offer into the fire of
Brahman, the very self as sacrificial material through the sacrifice of identification of soul with the
Brahman.
(123) There are those who perform incessant sacrifice in which they burn ignorance by their mind, in
the fire of the teaching given by the Guru.
(124) The sacrifice which they perform in the fire of yoga, should be called divine sacrifice in
which, O son of Pandu, the fruit of happiness of the soul is
desired.
(125) Now I tell you something more. There are those who perform the sacrifice by the fire of
Brahman in which Brahman itself is everything.
शोतादीनीि दया य ये संयमाि नषु जु ित|
श दादीि वषयान य इि दयाि नषु जु ित
Others offer as sacrifice their senses of hearing etc; into the fire of self-discipline. Other yogis
again offer sound and other objects of perception into the fires of the senses. (26)
(126) There are some who by the triple technique (of concentration, meditation and contemplation)
sacrifice the sense-organs in the fire of self-control, by purifying them.
