(127) There are some in whose life when the Sun of desirelessness arises, they kindle the fire of
senses and sacrifice the vices in it.
(128) There they have the flame of desirelessness in which the firewood of vices gets burnt, while
all the five senses which are pits of sacrifice, are deserted by the smoke of 'hope'.
(129) Then they sacrifice the objects of senses, in the pits of senses, which are the sacrificial places,
on the strength of the maxim in the Vedanta that “I AM BRAHMAN”.
सवाण िदयकमािण पाणकमािण चापरे |
आ मसंयमयं◌ोगा नौ जु ित ानदीिपते
Others sacrifice all the functions of their senses and the functions of Pranas (vital air) into the fire
of yoga in the shape of self-control, kindled by wisdom. (27)
(130) So, some have thus washed all their blemishes, O Partha, and some have turned the quality of
discrimination into a piece of wood to be rubbed on the anvil of heart (to produce fire).
(131) It was made firm by peacefulness and solid by the forbearance and was vigorously rubbed
with the sentence of advice given by the Guru.
(132) Thus, there was churning, with one pointed attention, which was quickly successful in
rekindling of the fire of knowledge.
(133) First, there appeared the smoke of occult powers and prosperity which became dissipated and
then a very tiny spark of fire was created.
(134) The mind was the fuel added to it, which had become dry by control of senses and actions.
(135) Then good-sized flames came up which were made of piousness, in which small pieces of
wood made up of various desires were burnt with the oil of various attachments.
(136) There, the Mantra of SOHAM was chanted and offerings of the actions of organs were put into
the fire of self knowledge.
(137) Afterwards, by the ladle of control of breath, the final offering was possible and the bath of
completion of the sacrifice was easily taken.
(138) Then the bliss of self-knowledge, which is the food remaining after all the material is burnt,
was respectfully received by them.
(139) Thus, some yogis have attained liberation by such sacrifices. These types of sacrifices are
different but their final goal is only one.
