द यय ा तपोय ा योगय ा तथाऽ परे |
वा याय ानय ा यतयः संिशतवताः
Some perform sacrifice with material possessions, some offer sacrifice in the shape of
austerities; others sacrifice through the practice of yoga; while striving souls observing austere vows,
perform sacrifice in the shape of wisdom through the study of sacred texts. (28)
(140) Some are called the sacrifice of materials, some are observing penances and that is their way
of sacrifice; and as already told, the practice of yoga is also a kind of sacrifice.
(141) Some dissolve the word into another word, which is called sacrifice by speech, and when
knowledge leads to the Brahman which is the final goal, it is called the sacrifice by knowledge.
(142) Arjuna! This is very difficult to perform, and only a man who has perfect control on himself
can be successful in it by his capacity.
(143) They are masters in yoga, rich in the accomplishments of yoga, and they have therefore merged
the Jeevatman in the Paramatman.
अपाने जु ित पाणं पाणेऽपानं तथाऽपरे |
पाणापानगती वा पाणायामपरायणाः
Other yogis offer the act of exhalation into that of inhalation and some others offer act of
inhalation into the act of exhalation, who are well-versed in the science of breath control and control
the movement of breathing in and breathing out. (29)
(144) Some sacrifice the material which is in the intake of breath, in the fire of the Apana or vital
breath being exhaled which they accomplish by constant study and practice.
(145) Some merge the outgoing breath into the inhalation process, while some observe control of
both, who are then called the controllers of Breath; O, the son of Pandu!
अपरे िनयताहाराः पाणा पाणेषु जु ित|
सवऽ येते य िवदो य िपतक मषाः
There are still others who control their intake of food as well as breath; they sacrifice their breath
into the breath or vital air distributed throughout their body. All these have washed away their sins by
way of such sacrifices and are understanding the nature of sacrifice (yadnya). (30)
(146) Some follow the system of yoga called Vajrayoga, control all the intake and carefully merge
the breath into the vitality permeating through the body.
