(155) Such are the various sacrifices which I have told you, which are laid down in detail, by
Vedas, praising them as auspicious.
(156) But what have we to do with all the details? We should know that this way of action is itself a
completion and thus only, there will not be any bondage of action.
शेया द यमयाद् य ाद् ानय ः परंतप|
सव कमािखलं पाथ ाने प रसमा यते
O! The source of trouble to enemies, O Partha, sacrifice through knowledge is more beneficial
than the sacrifice of offering material things; for, all actions without exception culminate in
knowledge. (33)
(157) O Arjuna! There are sacrifices originating from the root that is Vedas, which are full of many
activities, and whose wonderful fruit is the happiness in heaven.
(158) Those sacrifices involve offering of material things, but these cannot be equal to the sacrifice
through knowledge, just as the so-called splendour of all the stars is not equal to the brilliance of
the sun.
(159) Just consider the knowledge which becomes like a divine eye ointment for the eyes of spiritual
intuition, and which is not at all left aside by yogis who try to reach the great bliss of the state of
Atman.
(160) Consider that knowledge which is the fruition of action, which is started, the mine of
understanding of the actionless state, and fulfilment of the yearning of Sadhakas in the spiritual
practices.
(161) It is in that knowledge, that the urge for outward activity becomes crippled, the logic loses its
vision, and organs forget contact with sense-objects.
(162) There, the quality of the mind is lost, the speech loses its activeness and the object of knowing
is seen lying in it.
(163) In it, asceticism is fulfilled, the urge of discrimination is satisfied and Atman sees itself
effortlessly without looking.
ति ि पिणपातेन प रप ेन सेवया|
उपदे यि त ते ानं ािनन त वदिशनः
The seers of truth will give you the instructions in regard to that knowledge. You should have the
understanding of the true nature of that knowledge by bowing at their feet, enquiring thoroughly about
it and offering service to them. (34)
