(164) If you think that this beneficial knowledge should be attained, you should serve the saints with
all your heart.
(165) For, they are the temples of knowledge, and service is the threshold of that temple. O! The
good warrior! You should attain it by approaching them.
(166) You should surrender yourself at their feet with your body, mind and soul, and render all
service to them, without being proud.
(167) Then they will give, in answer to your enquiry, that which you expect, and when the mind is
endowed with that wisdom, it never projects any thought.
य ा वा न पुनम हमेवं या यिस पा डव|
येन भूता यशेषेण द य या म यथो मिय
O Arjuna, when you will reach the enlightenment, ignorance will not delude you like this again.
Then, by that understanding, first you will see all the beings in your own self and then dwelling in me.
(35)
(168) When by the listening to the sentense “YOU ARE THAT”, there is light in the consciousness,
it becomes fearless and identifies itself with Brahman.
(169) Then you will see all the beings together with yourself, to be continuously dwelling in me.
(170) O Partha, and when thus there will be the blessing of Guru, there will be dawn of the light of
knowledge and the darkness of confusion will be dissipated.
अिप चेदिस पापे यः सव यः पापक
ृ मः|
सव ान लवेनैव वृिजनं संत र यिस
Even if you are the most damned sinner of all sinners, this knowledge alone would carry you like
a raft across (the ocean of) all your sin. (36)
(171) Even if you are the storehouse of blemish, an ocean of delusion, a mountain of confusion–
(172) This all is very small as compared to the power of knowledge. Such is the pure and absolute
power of knowledge.
(173) Even the illusory shadow of the apparent universe which is the product of the Abstract, is not
effective before the light of this knowledge.
(174) Compared to that, what is so difficult in washing away the dirt in the mind? Even to say that it
washes away the dirt in the mind is childish. There is nothing so easy to wash than that, in the
