(206) But even if the doubt becomes so much developed, it can be contained and defeated if we have
the sword of knowledge in our hand;
(207) Then it is completely slain by that sword of knowledge and gets utterly destroyed from the
mind.
(208) Therefore, by destroying the doubt in your heart, you should quickly get up.
(Sanjaya says to King Dhrutarashtra thus -)
(209) “Please listen, O King! Thus Shri Krishna who is the patriarch of all wise people and a light
of knowledge, said to Arjuna with all the kindness. Dnyaeshwar says -
(210) ‘Now, the son of Pandu, having thought over the talk which has so far taken place, will ask a
question to the point,
(211) which is the continuity of this episode, and which is rich with faith and has heightened mood
of enthralment. It will be narrated further.
(212) That interesting part of narration is so good that excepting the mood of Shringara (love) all the
eight moods of literature are subservient to it and it is the great resting place for the hearts of
saints.
(213) It will be a novel expression of mood of ‘PEACE’ in the Marathi language, and deeper than
ocean in respect of its contest. You, the audience, may please listen to it.
(214) The ball of the Sun appears to be as small as our palm, but the three worlds are not adequate
to contain his light. You should experience the vast scope of the words in the same manner.
(215) Or, the wish-tree Kalpataru gives the fruit as per demand of the desirous person. The word is
vast like that. Therefore, please pay attention.
(216) But why should I say so? All of you know everything naturally. My only request is for you to
please give your heart to this.
(217) Just as a young and beautiful lady belonging to a noble family should also be a devoted,
faithful wife, similarly there is the quality of peace as well as literary accomplishment of a high
order, very clearly evident here.
(218) If one likes sugar and if it is prescribed as accompaniment to the medicine, why should it not
be taken again and again?
(219) The breeze coming from the mountain Malaya is naturally soft and fragrant! Suppose the
sweetness of nectar and resonant sound are luckily added to it.
