(3) As your talk is a kind of ‘double-talk’, we the ignorant cannot quite understand it according to
our grasping power.
(4) O Lord, please see what I say. If you have to advise about one thing which is essential, it is
necessary that your talk should be in keeping with the said line of thought. It should not be
involved. But it is not necessary that I should tell you about this.
(5) For this reason only I had earlier requested you (My Guru) that the spiritual teaching should not
be ambiguous.
(6) But my Lord, let that be. Now please explain to me which of the two paths is better.
(7) That should be abiding to the end, should give exactly desired fruit and should be easy and clear
to follow.
(8) It is just like a vehicle like Palakhi in which the traveller can sleep without disturbance and can
go quite a distance. The path should be similar to that.
(9) Upon this argument of Arjuna, the Lord was amused in his mind and then in a very happy mood,
he said, “Yes. It will be easy and comfortable."
(10) Dnyaneshwar says to the audience - “Please see, if anyone has fortunately a mother like the
Divine Cow, he may even get Moon to play with.
(11) Just see when the Lord Shankara was pleased with Upamanyu, did he not give him the whole
sea of milk just to satisfy his need for having milk and rice?
(12) Similarly when Shrikrishna who is the great store of generosity, becomes pleased with the great
warrior Arjuna, why should not all the comforts and happiness be available to him?
(13) Sirs, what wonder is there? When one gets the master like the spouse of goddess Laxmi in the
form of Shrikrishna one should make demands as one pleases.
(14) That is why, the Lord Shrikrishna happily gave Arjuna that knowledge which he wanted. I will
tell you what Shrikrishna told him. Please listen.
शीभगवानुवाच -
सं यासः कमयोग िनःशेयकरावुभौ|
तयो तु कमसं यासा कमयोगो िविश यते
Shrikrishna said, “The yoga of renunciation and the yoga of action - both are finally beneficial, in
giving the supreme bliss. The yoga of action however is superior to the yoga of renunciation.” (2)
