(15) The Lord said, “My dear son of Kunti, both the yogas namely the yoga of renunciation and the
yoga of action are leading to liberation.
(16) However, the yoga of action is suitable for both the ignorant and the men of knowledge just as a
ferry-boat is convenient to women and children also for crossing the waters.
(17) So, if we consider the pros and cons, this yoga of action is definitely easier because the result
which one gets by the yoga of renunciation can be had very easily by this.
(18) Now I will, with that intention only, tell you the signs of a person of renunciation, so that you
will know the similarity in both the paths.
ेयः स िन यसं यासी यो न ेि न का ित|
िन ो िह महाबाहो सुखं ब धा पमु यते
The man who neither hates nor desires should be considered as a confirmed renouncer. For, O
Arjuna, he who is free from the pairs of opposites is easily freed from bondage. (3)
(19) Thus, a man does not remember the things which are gone nor does he desire the things which
he has not got, and his mind is as firm as mount Meru.
(20) O Partha, such a man should be known as eternally a Sanyasi (renouncer) who has not an iota of
feeling of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’.
(21) The man who has attained this state, is abandoned by attachment itself and, therefore, he enjoys
happiness without break.
(22) Such a man has not to give up his house or anything else, because he understands that all those
things are not related to him, and he remains unattached.
(23) For example, when the fire is extinguished, there remains only ash which can be held between
our fingers while preparing cotton wicks.
(24) Similarly, even if everything is around him in the family life, he does not get bound by his
actions because his intellect does not become prey to projections and doubts.
(25) Therefore when the mind is devoid of intentions and doubts, then the real renunciation takes
place. For this reason, I say that both the renunciation of action and the yoga of action go together.
सां ययोगौ पृथग् बालाः पवदि त न पि डताः|
एकम याि थतः स यगुभयोिवद ते फलम्
It is the ignorant people and not the wise who argue that Saankhyayoga and Karmayoga are
