who has become one with the self in all beings, remains untainted even while he is performing
actions. (7)
(34) He has whisked his mind away from illusion and washed it in the waters of the advice given by
his teacher and merged it into the Atman by completely controlling it,
(35) For example, the moment a little salt falls into the sea it does not remain separate but by
merging into the sea becomes as vast as sea.
(36) - Similarly he who has freed his mind from projections of desires and whose mind has
practically become spirit only, has himself, though being in one body, permeated the whole three
worlds.
(37) Then in his case, the sense that he is the doer and that he has to do something, ceases to exist
and even if he performs everything, there is no awareness in him that he is the doer.
(38) Dear Partha, since he does not even remember himself to be in his body, tell me how can there
be the sense of doership in him?
नैव िक
ं िचत् करोमीित यु ो म येत त विवत्|
प य शृ व पृशि जघ न ग छ वप सन्
पलपन् िवसृजन् गृ न् उि मषन् िनिमषन् अिप|
इि दयाणीि दयाथषु वत त इित धारयन्
He however, who knows the reality of things, must realize, even though seeing, hearing, touching,
smelling, eating or drinking, walking, sleeping, breathing, speaking, answering the calls of nature,
grasping, and opening or closing the eyes, that he does nothing, knowing that it is the sense-organs that
are moving among their objects. (8,9)
(39) In this way, in the behaviour of Karmayogi the signs of pure abstract Brahman are visible
though he does not give up his body.
(40) In the ordinary course, he appears to be doing all sorts of work by bearing a body just like other
ordinary men.
(41) Karmayogi also, just like others, sees by his eyes and hears by his ears but the wonder is that he
does not get involved in the actions.
(42) He has the sense of touch and he enjoys smell by his nose and he can talk which is appropriate
to the occasion.
(43) He takes in his body what is to be taken, avoids those things which are forbidden and which are
