functions singularly as if in a dream.
(54) O Arjuna, the strange thing about the ‘desire’ is that it is so skillful that it involves the body in
pain and pleasure without letting the body know anything about it.
(55) That action which is not known in the town (field) of senses is to be called psychological
action.
(56) The yogis also do this type of mental work but they are not bound by that action because they
have left the company of egoism.
(57) Now when a man becomes obsessed by something, his mind becomes as deranged as if he is a
ghost and all his behaviour appears to be uncontrolled actions of senses.
(58) He is able to see the shapes of things and people around him; he can hear if he is called; he can
talk with his mouth but one cannot say that he is in contact with the physical reality of things.
(59) Now further details are not necessary. In short when action takes place without apparent
causation, it is called the activity of senses.
(60) Shrikrishna said to Arjuna, “Whatever action is performed with full under-standing and
responsibility, is called the action of intellect.’’
(61) Then he further said, “These people act with full application of mind and intellect but remain in
the state of freedom because of their unattachment to action.
(62) This is because right from the level of intellect to the level of physical body, they have no
memory of I-ness at all and therefore they remain pure while performing actions.
(63) O Arjuna, from their Guru, they have received the deep secret knowledge that to act without the
sense of pride in doer-ship is to be free of action.
(64) Arjuna, the stream of the river of ‘peace’ is in spate and is overflowing both the banks because,
here I have told you that principle which cannot be expressed by speech.
(65) Dnyaneshwar says, “Dear readers, only he whose senses have been fully quenched and is
peaceful is eligible for this knowledge.”
(66) But listening to this lengthy talk, the listeners said, “Enough of this protracted explanation. If
you lose the thread of the narration, there will not remain the necessary connection with the
original verse.
(67) You have been lucky to tell in words that principle which becomes a riddle for the mind to
solve; and which cannot be successfully determined by intellect.
