(68) Dear, if you can have the skill to explain in so many words, the philosophy which is beyond the
ken of speech, what more is there to be achieved? So, stop this and continue to tell further the
subject in question.
(69) Knowing this eagerness of the listeners to hear the talk, Dnyandeva, the disciple of Nivrittinatha
says - “Sirs, please listen attentively to the dialogue between Shrikrishna and Arjuna.”
(70) Then Shrikrishna said to Partha - “Dear, now I shall tell you the sign of recognizing the man
who is the perfected yogi, an Adept! Please listen.”
यु ः कमफलं य वा शाि तमा नोित नैि क म्|
अयु ः कामकारे ण फले स ो िनब यते
Surrendering the fruit of action, the yogi attains peace in the shape of complete faith whereas he
who is not a yogi and acts with a selfish desire becomes attached to the fruit of actions and gets tied
down. (12)
(71) One who has attained unity with Atman and dropped totally the desire for fruit is, in this world,
garlanded by peace in his own home.
(72) And O Arjuna, the crowned warrior, other who is not so united is tied to the pole of fruit by the
rope of action which is having knots of passion.
सवकमािण मनसा सं य या ते सुखं वशी|
नव ारे पुरे देही नैव क
ु व न कारयन्
The self-controlled Saankhyayogi neither doing anything nor getting anything done by others rests
happily in the body which is a city of nine gates. (13)
(73) The yogi performs actions just like others who act with selfish hope, but he is indifferent to the
action, with a feeling that he has not done anything.
(74) Then there is showering of happiness in whatever direction he looks and there is the abode of
self-knowledge where he resides.
(75) He who surrenders the fruit of actions, resides in the body of nine sense-organs, but really is not
belonging to it and does not actually do anything though he performs various actions.
न कतृ वं न कमािण लोक य सृजित पभुः|
न कमफलसंयोगं वभाव तु पवतते
God does not decide the doership nor the doings of men nor does he create the relationship of the
