actions and their results; but it is the nature of things that functions. (14)
(76) Just as the great Almighty is bereft of any action but He alone appears to be the creator of the
universe, when He is with His Maya–
(77) And if we say that He is the doer, He is not involved by anything because He has no hands and
feet as such, to be attached and involved in any function. Such is His disinterestedness.
(78) His yogic trance is never disturbed, His being a non-doer is not affected but He erects the great
armies of the five great elements.
(79) He is in the innermost soul of the whole world, but does not belong to anybody at any place and
time. The whole world comes into being and disappears but He is not even aware of all this
happening.
नाद े क यिच पापं न चैव सुक
ृ तं िवभुः|
अ ानेनावृतं ानं तेन मु ि त ज तवः
The omnipresent god does not accept either the virtue or the sin of anyone. Self-knowledge is
covered up by ignorance and, therefore, the people get deluded. (15)
(80) Eventhough all the sins and merits are nearest to him, he does not turn his attention to them. Not
only this, but he even refuses to be a witness to all this. Then why talk of any other things?
(81) He, being in the company of a particular body acts according to the occasions but his abstract
nature does not ever get disturbed.
(82) ‘He creates, protects and destroys’ - so they say; but O The son of Pandu, know that it is simply
the greatest ignorance in the world.
ानेन तु तद ानं येषां नािशतमा मनः|
तेषामािद यव ानं पकाशयित त परम्
In the case, however, of those, whose ignorance of the self is discarded by self-knowledge, that
wisdom shining like the Sun illuminates the Supreme Brahman. (16)
(83) When that ignorance is rooted out totally, and when the blemish of delusion is washed clean,
then the man will experience that the God is not the doer.
(84) Now if the mind understands that only god is alone the non-doer, then it is already a proven
thing that ‘I am that God’.
(85) When once this understanding shines forth in the consciousness, where has the sense of
