(95) If there is ego, then only the sense of separateness becomes evident but when that ego is not
there from the beginning, where is the question of differentia-tion?
इहैव तैिजतः सग येषां सा ये ि थतं मनः|
िनद षं िह समं ब त मा िण ते ि थताः
This world is conquered by those whose mind is established in equilibrium and since the
Brahman is equilibrium itself and is without any defect or disparity, they are also established in that
Brahman. (19)
(96) Please understand that to see everything with equanimity means that the man himself is Brahman
which is only one without a second, and therefore he is impartial to everything.
(97) He does not run away from objects of senses, does not punish his sense-organs but enjoys the
unattached state, being without any desire.
(98) They behave just like other ordinary people outwardly but have dropped the attraction towards
all objects.
(99) For example, there may be an astral being among people but it is invisible to ordinary sight.
Similarly such a man is within his body but the people at large do not recognize him.
(100) For example, by being in contact with wind, it is water which moves upon water but people
name it as a wave.
(101) Similarly his name and shape appear to be different but essentially he is truly Brahman only.
This is the state of the man whose mind is in equilibrium in all circumstances.
(102) O Arjuna, there is some quality by which such a man can be recognised, which I will tell you
in brief - so said Achyuta, the Lord Shrikrishna.
न प येि पयं पा य नोि जेत् पा य चािपयम्|
ि थरबुि रसंमूढो ब िवद् ब िण ि थतः
He who is having firm intellect, has no delusion and does not get elated on getting what is
pleasurable nor gets disturbed on getting what is unpleasant, is one who has realized Brahman and is
eternally established in that state. (20)
(103) Such a man does not get disturbed either in happy circumstances or unpleasant ones, just as a
mountain is not moved by the spate of a mirage.
(104) Hari said, "O the son of Pandu, he is truly a man with an impartial outlook and he is Brahman,
the Absolute.
