बा पश वस ा मा िव द या मिन य सुखम्|
स ब योगयु ा मा सुखम यमश्नुते
He whose mind is not attached to sense objects, derives that bliss which is in his Atman, that yogi
having completely identified himself through unity with Brahman, enjoys unending supreme bliss. (21)
(105) When the man does not leave his state of eternal Brahman and does not come down to the level
of his senses, does not enjoy the sense objects, obviously. There is nothing surprising in it.
(106) He is naturally engrossed in the limitless self-bliss and his mind is completely satisfied in it.
Therefore he does not step outside.
(107) For example, please tell me; will the Chakor bird who has drunk the nectar-like moon-rays
from the dish of lotus petals, ever go to taste the desert-sand?
(108) Similarly, should we make a special mention that the sense objects are dropped very easily by
a man who has very naturally attained the self-bliss of its own accord?
ये िह सं पशजा भोगा दुःखयोनय एव ते|
आ तव तः कौ तेय न तेषु रमते बुधः
The pleasures which are born of contacts with the sense objects are really a source of suffering
only. They have a beginning and an end. O son of Kunti, the wise man does not get interested in them.
(22)
(109) Just consider for fun’s sake the men who are subjected to deception by the pleasures accrued
from sense objects.
(110) Those who have not even a glimpse of Atman only get attracted to the objects of senses, just as
a starving man may eat anything like husk, etc.
(111) Or the deer being very thirsty, runs wildly in vast land, thinking that there is water, though it is
mirage.
(112) Similarly, one who has not seen himself and has total shortage of self-bliss, only likes the
sense-objects.
(113) Anyway to say that there is happiness in sense objects is better not stated. Because if there
were any happiness there, people would have also done their usual activities in the light of
lightning in the sky.
(114) My dear, where is the necessity to build three-storied buildings if by the shadow of the clouds,
there would have been protection from wind, rain and sun?
