(115) Therefore the “happiness from sense-objects” is a misnomer, a thoughtless ignorant talk, like
calling a poisonous root as sweet.
(116) For example, the planet mars is called mangal (auspicious) and mirage is called Mrugajala
(water). Similarly ‘‘Pleasure or happiness is derived from sense objects.’’ is a false statement.
(117) All this talk is senseless. Tell me– How much cool can the shadow of the hood of a serpent be
for a rat?
(118) O son of Pandu, so long as the fish does not bite the bait, it is safe. Similar is the case without
doubt, about the contact with the sense-objects.
(119) If seen with the eyes of an ascetic, O the crowned one, all these appear like the false obesity
of a patient of anemia.
(120) Thus whatever is appearing as pleasure in the enjoyment of sense-objects should be known as
pain from start to end, but what can the stupid people do in this? They cannot help indulging in it.
(121) They do not know the inner truth and, therefore, they are compelled to enjoy the objects.
Please tell me - do the worms in the pus or mud ever feel disgusted about it?
(122) To those who are suffering, that suffering is the heart of the matter, a matter of great interest.
They are frogs in the mud of objects. They are the aquatic animals in the waters of indulgence.
How can they be free of them?
(123) Though these objects cause pain, they will be ineffective if at all these Jeevas will hold
dislike about them in their mind.
(124) Otherwise who would have been eager to seek the path of continuous calamities and troubles
right from the life in the womb to the tremendous pain both at the time of birth and death?
(125) Further, if the souls who are attached to the objects will give up those objects, where can the
‘poor great sin’ find a place to stay? Then the word “Sansar” (worldly life) would have been
false and disappeared from the world.
(126) Actually, only those who are habituated to derive pleasure from these objects and have
accepted the suffering inherent in them, have given validity to this tremendous illusion.
(127) Therefore, O the great warrior, the “sense object” is totally false. Therefore never turn
towards that path even by oversight.
(128) Those who are austere in their desirelessness avoid the sensual pleasures as if it is poison and
as they are desireless, they do not feel the resultant pain.
