in Brahman and who are actively engaged in the welfare of all beings, attain Brahman, which is total
peace. (25)
(137) Those who are fully satisfied by such happiness and are involved into themselves inwardly
are according to me the images of the homogeneity of Brahman.
(138) They are the formation of bliss. They are the offshoots of happiness or the playground of
supreme enlightenment.
(139) They are the towns of discretion or the very nature of absolute Brahman or the ornamented
limbs of the science of Brahman.
(140) They are the essence of piousness, or they are the embodiment of spirit.’’
Here the listeners said, “Enough! Why are you describing each and every-
thing?
(141) You go astray and dwell at length in the praise of saints and forget the continuity of the subject
under reference and you are inspired to use beautiful words while propounding that which is
having no form or facets.
(142) But now control your inspiration of indulgence in highly flowery language and brighten the
lamp of the meaning of the book itself, and let the auspicious dawn come into existence in the
hearts of the saints."
(143) Thus the servant of Nivruttinath got the message from the Guru. Therefore, now please listen to
what Shrikrishna said to Arjuna.
(144) (Shrikrishna said-) ‘O Arjuna, those who delve deep in the pond of self-bliss and reach the
very bottom of it, become united with that state and remain there only.
(145) We can also say safely that he who sees all the universe in himself in the light of his inner
light, has himself, by his own body become Brahman.
(146) That Absolute Brahman, which is the supreme truth, imperishable and limitless is the great
treasure of those desireless persons who are the only authorities there.
(147) That is the special fortune in the lot of great sages, and only the desireless persons partake of
it. It becomes the ripe fruit which those who have banished all doubt, eternally enjoy.
कामकोधिवयु ानां यतीनां यतचेतसाम्|
अिभतो ब िनवाणं वतते िविदता मनाम्
To the self-controlled wise men, who are free from desire and anger, and who have subdued their
