mind and realized Atman, the abode of eternal peace, the Brahman is present all-around, or radiates
out from within them. (26)
(148) Those who have whisked away their mind from sense-objects and have kept it under perfect
control, remain eternally peaceful in that state from which they are not at all disturbed.
(149) ‘‘O the son of Pandu, that state is called “The eternal rest in the Absolute Brahman”, and these
men become themselves that Brahman which is the final goal for the men of self-knowledge.
(150) You will ask how they reached this state, how they became Brahman while living in the
physical body. Therefore, I will tell you that also, in short.
पशा क
ृ वा बिहबा ां ु ैवा तरे भुवोः|
पाणापानौ समौ क
ृ वा नासा य तरचा रणौ
यतेि दयमनोबुि मुिनम परायणः|
िवगते छाभयकोधो यः सदा मु एव सः
He who keeps the contacts from outside at that level only, who concentrates his vision in the
space between his eyebrows, who keeps equal the breath going in and out of the nostrils, who has
controlled his sense-organs, mind and intellect, who is a monk, seeking liberation, and whose desire,
fear and anger are gone for ever, is truly a liberated man. (27-28)
(151) So, those who, taking the support of desirelessness, have kept the objects of senses away and
out of their ‘being’, and have concentrated their mind in one place within their body.
(152) Having turned back their vision, into the place where the two eyebrows meet each other, very
smoothly.
(153) Leaving both the right and the left side of the nose, have kept the inhaling and exhaling very
smooth and equal, in the center, and turned them from the mind up to the inner cerebral cavity;
(154) There, just as when all the big and small streams meet the sea, it is not possible to distinguish
them separately.
(155) Similarly, O Arjun, the different desires and their classification etc; comes automatically to an
end when the mind is merged by the wind (breath) into the cerebral space called inner sky.
(156) Then, the very screen of mind on which the world is reflected, is torn. Just as there is no
reflection in a lake when water in it is dried up;
(157) Similarly when the ‘capital’ which is mind is gone where are the other senses such as “I and
mine?’’ So, the man who experiences this becomes Brahman by his body itself.
