भो ारं य तपसां सवलोकमहे रम्|
सु दं सवभूतानां ा वा मां शाि तमृ छित
Knowing me as the final receiver of the offerings in the sacrifices and the penances, the supreme
Lord of all the worlds and a friend of all beings, he attains the supreme peace. (29)
(158) Those whom we described earlier to have become Brahman while living in their body, really
reach that state by following this path only.
(159) They have climbed and passed beyond the mountains of strict rules of conduct, and have
crossed the seas of constant practice, and reached this shore.
(160) They have sized up the mundane life by keeping themselves aloof and have then become the
very personification of peace and remained eternally in that state.
(161) Thus the Lord Hrisheekesha spoke about the aim of the practice of yoga, which, Arjuna, being
very alert, listened to with wonder.
(162) The Lord Shrikrishna saw and understood this state of Partha and asked him smilingly “Is your
mind satisfied with all this description?”
(163) Upon this Arjuna said - “O Lord, you are the most accomplished one in reading the minds of
others, and you have surely well understood my feelings.
(164) It so happens that whatever I wish to ask, the Lord already knows. But I request you to please
explain again in simpler terms what you have told.
(165) Anyway, the path which you have advised is easier, just like wading through a shallow stream
which is easier than swimming.
(166) So, compared to the path of knowledge in Sankhya philosophy, this path is easier for weak-
willed persons like me; and it is not a matter to worry about, if some time is required to find it
out.
(167) Therefore, O Lord, please re-iterate the same advice and make it more elaborate, if it is not
much trouble to you.
(168) Upon this, the Lord Shrikrishna said - Oh! So you really found this path of action to be easier!
Then what trouble is there for me to tell you again? I will happily tell. Please listen again.
(169) O Arjuna, if you are listening to this advice and going to actually follow it in your life, then
what trouble is there for us to repeat it?"
