(170) Dnyaneshwar says - "The heart of Shrikrishna was already full of kindness. Over and above,
the reason of all the talk was that Arjuna was very dear to him. Now, who will know fully the
wonderous manifestation of that great affection?
(171) Should I describe the loving gaze which Shrikrishna turned towards Arjuna, as the shower of
nectar or the creation of wonderful friendliness? I cannot really describe the glance of Lord Hari,
accurately enough.
(172) Was it full of nectar, or was it beyond limits of rationality because it had the love, and
therefore it was so madly in love with Arjuna that it did not know how to turn away?
(173) But let this be. Whatever I talk further will be a diversion from the main story, but even then, it
will not be an apt description of the love which Shrikrishna had for Arjuna.
(174) But what is so strange about my inability? Who can ever describe the nature of God
completely, when He Himself cannot do so?
(175) But I feel that there is enough evidence of his being indulgent and involved
in Arjuna through intense love, judged by his earlier talk of emphatically entreating Arjuna to
listen again.
(176) Thus, Shrikrishna said - “Arjuna, in whatever ways your mind will follow what I say, I will
tell you happily at length everything in so many ways -
(177) As to what is the path of action, and of what use it is, and who is eligible to learn this subject -
(178) will all be explained by me now, whichever is described earlier.
(179) You will please listen to it with attention." (Thus saying, Shri Hari will tell him further, which
is to be described now.)
(180) We will describe clearly how Shrikrishna will explain the yoga to Arjuna without breaking
the continuity of the subject - so says the servant of Nivrutti (i.e. saint Dnyaneshwara.)
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे कमसं यासयोगो नाम प चमोऽ यायः
Thus, in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of knowledge of Brahman, in the
scripture of yoga, and in the dialogue between Shrikrishna and Arjuna, the fifth chapter by name
"Renunciation of Action" comes to an end. (5)
■■
