(44) For example, this Earth produces various trees etc. but has no desire to enjoy the fruits or the
grain.
(45) Similarly, the man who acts whatever is proper for the occasion and in keeping with the
standard conduct of his caste,
(46) But there is no pride in his body resulting in passion and no motive in his intellect for gaining
fruit,
(47) Is really the renouncer. O Partha, please listen. He himself is surely the Master in yoga.
(48) Now, when a man avoids or drops the action which is appropriate to the occasion arguing that
it is binding to him, it should be noted that in giving up one action, he indulges into some other
activity.
(49) This is similar to removing one kind of decorative paste and apply another immediately to the
forehead. Such is the plight of the man who insists on avoiding the right action.
(50) Consider how there is already on his head the burden of properly performing the duties of a
householder. If he becomes a Sanyasi, he increases his burden in yet another way.
(51) Therefore, the happiness in practising Karmayoga is very natural without giving up the worship
of sacred fire or transgressing the line of proper action.
यं सं यासिमित पाहय गं तं िवि पा डव|
न सं य तसंक पो योगी भवित क न
O the son of Pandu, you should know that what people called as Sanyasa is actually yoga.
Nobody becomes a yogi without giving up desire projected by mind. (2)
(52) Please listen. Many great scriptures have unfurled flag of the unity between the Sanyasi, and
yogi, in the world.
(53) Where the projection of desire is given up, there only, the essence of yoga is attained. This is
defined by the scriptures after constant experience.
आ ोमुनेय गं कम कारणमु यते|
योगा ढ य त यैव शमः कारणमु यते
For a sage, who desires to attain the state of yoga, action is helpful and instrumental, but when he
achieves that state, maintaining peace is instrumental to keep up that state. (3)
(54) Now, O Partha, if one has the aim of reaching the peak of the mountain of yoga, one has not at
