all to go away from the path of steps towards it.
(55) Climbing these steps gradually, one has to start from the base of rules and regulations of
conduct and choose the narrow lane of yogic postures and then climb the cliff of breath control.
(56) Then there is a steep slippery cliff of withdrawal of attention from outward objects,
(Pratyahara) where even the intellect cannot get a purchase. It is so slippery. Here the very
adamant yogis find their vows shaky and they fall down.
(57) Even then by persistant tenacious efforts and by practice, it is possible that some steadiness
will come in this abstract facet and the acute ascetic attitude will gradually develop.
(58) In this way, one should enter through the flat land of breath control into the large area of
meditation and eventually progress up to the level of concentration.
(59) Then here this path comes to an end and the urge of outward effort subsides because the means
and the end become one.
(60) Here there is no scope of going a step further and no memory of past also remains. The yogi
here reaches the smooth state of trance on the yogic path.
(61) I shall tell you the selected signs of such a man who reaches perfection through this high state of
consciousness.
यदा िह नेि दयाथषु न कम वनुष जते|
सवसंक पसं यासी योगा ढ तदो यते
When the yogi does not become interested in the objects of the senses and actions and renounces
the tendency to decide and desire anything, he is called a man who has attained yoga. (4)
(62) This man is such that the entry into and exit of objects from the field of consciousness at the
peripheral level is stopped and he is resting in the room of self-knowledge, in a state of happy
self-bliss.
(63) His mind does not get instigated to fight with happiness and sorrow by directly coming into
contact with them; and he is not aware of the objects even though they are near.
(64) In his mind, there is not even a hint of attachment to the fruits, eventhough he employes his
senses in the performance of action.
(65) Such a man who is awake only for the sake of maintaining his body but remains indifferent to it,
as if he is asleep, should be definitely known as having attained the Yoga.
(66) Upon this, Arjuna said, “O Anant, I am surprised to listen to this. Please tell me, what will give
