one such a capacity as described by you.
उ रे दा मना मानं ना मानमवसादयेत्|
आ मैव ा मनो ब धुरा मैव रपुरा मनः
One should uplift oneself by one’s own efforts and should not degrade oneself; for, one’s own
self is one’s friend, and one’s own self is one’s enemy. (5)
(67) Then Shrikrishna smiled and said, “O Arjuna, it is your talk that is surprising. In this state of
aloneness, who can give what and to whom?
(68) When the man is in a comatose state on the bed of delusion because of Maya, he starts
experiencing the dreams of birth and death.
(69) But later on when he abruptly becomes awake, all the dream is proved to be false, but even this
understanding of himself is in the self-same state of aloneness.
(70) So, O Dhananjaya, if one holds pride in his mind, one destroys oneself by one’s own action.”
ब धुरा मा मन त य येना मैवा मना िजतः|
अना मन तु शतु वे वतता मैव शतुवत्
He who has conquered himself becomes his own brother but he who has not so controlled himself
may behave detrimental like an enemy to himself. (6)
(71) For this, we should, with careful thought, give up pride and become our own original state of
Brahman, by which act we naturally achieve our own spiritual welfare.
(72) Otherwise, the man who gets enamoured by his own body and confines himself into it like the
silk-worm which creates the cocoon and imprisons itself in it, becomes his own enemy.
(73) For example, when an opportunity of getting money is at hand, an unlucky man thinks like a
blind man, or closes his eyes and not seeing the heap of money steps across it.
(74) Or for example, somebody who is having a fit of madness cries out - I am not this, I am lost.
Somebody has stolen me!- He becomes obsessed by that madness.
(75) Really, Jeeva is Brahman only. But alas! His mind does not turn into that direction at all. Does
anybody ever get killed by a weapon in the dream?
(76) His condition is like the parrot who sits on a rung which turns upside down, but instead of
suddenly flying away, the parrot becomes afraid to let go.
