(77) It suddenly twists its neck, contracts its chest and sits tight by grasping the rung firmly by its
beak.
(78) It becomes so engrossed in the false idea of being caught that he tightens the grip of its claws
and becomes much more tied down.
(79) How can any other person say that it is caught without any reason, when it has by its own
foolishness become so? When that parrot is so caught by delusion, it will not let go the rung, even
if it is cut into two.
(80) Therefore, he who egoistically increases his plans and doubts, becomes his own enemy; but
another wise person who experiences that he is Atman, and never holds on to the unreal, is the
great man of self-knowledge, according to me.
िजता मनः पशा त य परमा मा समािहतः|
शीतो णसुखदुःखेषु तथा मानापमानयोः
ानिव ानतृ ा मा क
ू ट थो िविजतेि दयः|
यु इ यु यते योगी समलो ा मका चनः
In the case of self-controlled man, whose mind is perfectly peaceful in the midst of pairs of
opposites such as cold and heat, pleasure and pain and honour and insult, the supreme spirit is rooted
in the consciousness. (7)
The yogi, whose mind is satisfied with self-knowledge and objective knowledge, who is in his
inner-most state, whose senses are completely conquered and who looks equally upon a lump of clay,
a stone and gold, is spoken of as a self-realised soul. (8)
(81) He who has mastery over his mind and all desires in whose mind are cooled down and
dissolved, does not feel that the Paramatman is far away from him.
(82) Just as pure gold remains as such, when the dross is burnt out, the Jeeva remains as
Paramatman, when the impediments and blemishes of desires and projections of mind are
dropped.
(83) For example, when a pot is broken, the space in it has not to go anywhere else in order to be
one with the larger space outside.
(84) Similarly, when the false pride about physical body is totally dropped, the man has not to do
anything further to become the supreme Paramatman, because he is already that Paramatman only.
(85) Then in the case of such a man, there is no likelihood of his worrying about cold or hot, pain or
pleasure and respect or insult.
