(86) My dear, wherever the Sun goes, everything is full of light. Similarly whatever comes in front
of this man becomes one with his own existence.
(87) Just as the drops of rain water falling from clouds, do not hurt the ocean, so, good or evil things
do not become a source of trouble to this man because everything is one with his Atman.
(88) When we consider the whole gamut of the worldly life and definitely know
that it is illusory, then the deeper he thinks, the more he finds that he himself is that knowledge.
(89) When this happens and the sense of separateness is dissolved, the argument whether the Atman
is limited by space and time or unlimited, ceases to be.
(90) Again, please note that he who has conquered his sense organs becomes on par with Brahman,
though he is having a physical body.
(91) He is the real, self-controlled man, and he should be called a true yogi, because the
discrimination as to who is small and who is great does not touch his mind.
(92) For him a mountain of gold as high as Meru and a small lump of clay are equal.
(93) He becomes so desireless and of a mind in equilibrium, that he may even discard as ordinary
stone, a jewel worth the whole earth.
सुहि मतायुदासीनम य थ े यब धुषु |
साधु विप च पापेषु समबुि िविश यते
He who looks with equanimity upon friends, well-wishers and neutrals as well as mediators,,
relatives and enemies worth hating, the virtuous and the sinful, is extra-ordinary. (9)
(94) How can one imagine the differences of a well-wisher and an enemy or a person disinterested
or friendly, in the case of such a man?
(95) When he has attained the understanding that he himself is the universe, who is a brother and
who an enemy and of whom?
(96) How can he say that one thing is worthless and another thing is best? If the magic-stone (Parees)
is used as a touch-stone, how will there be any gold mixed with iron etc? For, whatever is rubbed
to that stone becomes pure gold.
(97) Similarly, the quality of equanimity of the pure intellect of that man is such, that it sees
everything whether inanimate or animate in this universe, as one Atman only.
(98) He knows that eventhough the ornaments of things in this universe are of different shape and
