structure, they are made of one pure gold of absolute Brahman.
(99) He who has complete knowledge of his nature does not get confused by the different forms and
shapes.
(100) Just as when we think carefully, in the cloth, there are only threads, so he definitely sees that
there is nothing but absolute Brahman in the whole universe.
(101) One who really experiences this, is a man of undifferentiated quality of vision. You should
definitely know that this is not untruth.
(102) Such a man is the king of sacred places. When we see him, the mind is full of respect and in
his company even a man under the influence of delusion gets self-knowledge.
(103) Religion lives by his words, in his glance, the eight occult powers are born and the pleasures
in the heaven are as insignificant as children’s toys for him.
(104) By simply remembering him, that man becomes like him, and over and above that, it is very
beneficial if that man praises him.
योगी यु जीत सततमा मानं रहिस ि थतः|
एकाक यतिच ा मा िनराशीरप रगहः
The yogi, having no tendency to amass things, having no hope and expectation, living in solitude,
should put himself constantly to the task of being united with Atman, in a place which is secret, not
known to anybody. (10)
(105) Then when the day of non-duality has so risen that it will never set again, the seeker is with
himself alone, without distraction.
(106) Arjuna, such a man who has spiritual discrimination, and thinks that way, is alone permeating
all the three worlds, and therefore has not desire for possessing so many things.
(107) In this way the Lord Shrikrishna told Arjuna the signs of recognizing the man who has reached
the final goal of liberation, even placing him higher than his own status.
(108) The Lord Shrikrishna further said - He is the greatest among men of self-knowledge, he is the
light of the clairvoyant seers, and at the will of that most revered master, the universe comes into
being.
(109) The Vedas who have brought the Absolute Brahman to the common level of 'AUM', by their
power, are also unable to cover his fame by the cloth knitted with that 'AUM'. (This means that
Vedas fail to describe his greatness.)
