(110) It is by the brilliance of his body that the Sun and the Moon carry on their work of giving light
and therefore if he is not there, and his light is not there, the world will not function. (This means,
the world gets guidance by the knowledge of such a liberated self-realized soul.)
(111) O Arjuna, even the name of such a yogi is so great that this heaven is insignificant before it;
then how can you grasp the greatness of each of his virtues?
(112) So, let us stop here. Actually whose signs and qualities are to be told and why I did tell you at
all, is not very clear to me also.
(113) “Perhaps, if the secret knowledge of non-duality which banishes the sense of separateness is
totally revealed to Arjuna, the affection and love which I enjoy in the person of Arjuna will be
lost -” was what Shrikrishna thought to himself at that time.
(114) Therefore, he said - “Arjuna, I am not talking about non-duality. There is still a thin veil
between the seeker and that state; because, the mind is slightly kept in duality to enjoy the
affection between you and myself.
(115) I do not wish that the evil eye of the seeker, who even finds the sentence “I AM THAT” as an
impediment because there is a concept of separate I at first in it, and who is hungry of the unified
state of being Brahman, should not hurt the mutual love which you and I are enjoying.
(116) Shrikrishna thought - “If the sense of “I” will be dissolved in Arjuna and
he will become one with me, then what charm is there in my still remaining alone?”
(117) Who else is there for me by looking at whom, my eyes are satisfied and cooled down by love,
or with whom I can speak to my heart’s content, or whom I can embrace with total love?
(118) If Arjuna is totally one with me, then with whom can I speak this great thing which is acutely
felt by me and which is not contained by my mind?
(119) With this thought, Shrikrishna, while going to describe the state of non-duality suddenly turned
to say something about the state of duality and attracted the attention of Arjuna.
(120) Dnyaneshwar says to audience, “Though my saying these things may sound to be somewhat
weird, you should not forget that Arjuna was the very image of the love of Shrikrishna.
(121) Not only this, take an example of an old barren woman who is lucky enough to have a child.
See how happily she would dance at that fortunate happening.
(122) Such was the condition of Shrikrishna. Had I not actually seen it by my eyes I would not have
described it in this way.
(123) And see the wonder of all this. How difficult is the subject of Non-duality and how disastrous
