was the time of actual fierce battle! But we see here the love of a dear friend dancing like a doll!
(124) Really speaking, love and bashfulness, habit and dislike, and madness and sober intellect
never go together.
(125) The intention of telling this is that Arjuna was the object of love for Shrikrishna, and was
verily a mirror reflecting the happy mind of Shrikrishna.
(126) Because Arjuna was so pure and pious in his mind, he was like a fertile field for sowing the
seed of devotion towards Shrikrishna.
(127) Partha was the presiding deity of the devotion which is called ‘friendly’ relation with God
which is one step below the final state of “total surrender”.
(128) Arjuna was so dear to Shrikrishna that though the Master, the Lord Shrikrishna was near him,
one cannot help praising the devotee Arjuna, more than the Lord.
(129) Is it not a fact that the faithful wife who is totally devoted to her husband is more praiseworthy
than her husband?
(130) Accordingly my mind liked it more to praise Arjuna, because the good luck of all the three
worlds was concentrated in him.
(131) Being attracted by the love of Arjuna, the Lord Shrikrishna who was abstract in his real nature
had to take a form and though he was complete, he had an eagerness and tenderness, towards
Arjuna.
(132) Upon this the listeners said, “How lucky we are! How great is the beauty of these words! The
melody of these words has really defeated the resonance of the seven notes of music.
(133) Is it not a wonder that this is Marathi language, in which the various moods of literature
become incornated?
(134) Even in this Marathi language, see how the brilliant moon-light of knowledge is gloriously
evident and the cool-ness of meaning is spread everywhere and therefore, by the light of this
language, the lily of the meaning of Geeta is naturally blossoming.
(135) By this exquisite description, the hearts of listeners were full of eagerness and though they
were of a retired outlook towards worldly life, they became anxious to listen and by the inner joy
their heads began to nod.
(136) Being aware of this state of the mind of the listeners, the servant of Nivrutti said - “Respected
Sirs, please be attentive. There is no doubt that by the light of the blessings of Shrikrishna, there
has arisen the morning of wonderment in the family of Pandavas.
