(137) This Shrikrishna was borne by Devki in her womb and Yashoda took his care by taking all the
troubles but at last he was helpful to Pandavas.
(138) Therefore, the merit of Arjuna was so much that he had not to serve him for a protracted
period to earn his blessing nor had to look out for an opportunity to beg for his benediction.
(139) But I shall close this detailed commentary and turn to the original text immediately. “Listening
to the talk of Shrikrishna, Arjuna somehow becoming a bit pampered said - “O Lord, the signs of
saints which you have told me do not seem to be there in my life.
(140) Really speaking, I have no power enough even to have a bit of these good signs but I hope that
I may be sufficiently able to have these qualities in me by your advice.
(141) If you take it to your heart to advise me, I will become Brahman. What is impossible for me to
do, that you may tell?
(142) I am not knowing the person about whose signs you have been telling me. Even then I am liking
to praise it. Then if somebody becomes that much worthy, his happiness will not know any limits.
(143) Therefore, O my dear Teacher, please do teach me, so that I will reach the state of that master
yogi!" Upon this the Lord smiled a little and said, “All right! I will do as you wish."
(144) Sirs, so long as satisfaction is not there, the mind is always worrying as to how there will be
happiness but once there is that complete satisfaction, the desire does not remain unfulfilled.
(145) Similarly, he who has served God becomes easily united with Brahman, but see how Arjuna is
having rich blossom of the ‘fruit’ and become humble.
(146) Sirs, that God Almighty who is not easily met by the gods like Indra even after thousands of
lives is so much in love with Arjuna, that he upholds his every word.
(147) So, please see how the Lord Shrikrishna had completely listened to what Arjuna said, viz. “I
want to become Brahman.”
(148) Then Shrikrishna thought to himself, “As there is a child of desirelessness in the womb of
intellect of this Arjuna, he is having pregnancy sickness of the state of Brahman.
(149) But the foetus is still premature. However by the blossoming of the ‘Vasant’ (spring) of
ascetic apathy, he is full of flowers of ‘I AM THAT’ and is about to deliver.
(150) He is so beyond all desires that it will not take much time for the child being ‘the fruit of
realization of Brahman’ to be born. In this way, the Lord had confidence about the desirelessness
of Arjuna.
