(151) The Lord said to himself, “This man will get the fruit in advance of whatever he will wish to
do. He has attained such a mastery. So if I teach him the study of yoga, it will not go in vain.”
(152) Having this thought in mind, the Lord Shrikrishna said to Arjuna, “O Partha, I am going to tell
you about the royal-road of yoga-study. Please listen to it.
(153) On this path there are trees of positive outward action to which there are bunches of fruits of
the negative attitude of withdrawal, hidden beneath at the root. The Lord Shankara is still walking
on this path.
(154) Other yogis went astray by some cross-roads in the first instance but gradually by listening to
the sound of their own foot-steps, by experience, they accepted this royal-road at the end.
(155) They left the by-lanes of ignorance and by turning to the straight path of self-knowledge, they
have run fast.
(156) Next to the yogis, the great sages have travelled on this path and reached the stage of master-
hood by successfully going through the stage of aspirants and seekers. Great men of self-
realisation have reached higher stages through this path only.
(157) When once this royal road of yoga is clearly seen, the seeker forgets his thirst and hunger and
there is no difference of day or night on this path.
(158) Wherever one takes a step further on this road, the very mine of liberation opens up; and if at
all there is any hindrance and delay, at least the happiness in heaven is directly available.
(159) One may start to go to the east 'of activity' or go to the west, 'of withdrawal from activity,'
there is definitely only the right progress by being quietly steady in one's inner state.
(160) It is not necessary to tell this again. You will know it by experience afterwards. On this path,
we ourselves become the town where we intend to go."
(161) On this, Partha said, “O Lord, when are you going to teach me this science of Yoga? Or is it
right that you should not save me from drowning in the ocean of curiosity?”
(162) The Lord Krishna said, “O Partha, you are too eager. My dear, I was going to tell you this but
you have asked this question by breaking my link.
शुचौ देशे पित ा य ि थरमासनमा मनः|
ना युि छतं नाितनीचं चैलािजनक
ु शो रम्
