The yogi should select a place to sit which should be clean and steady. It should be neither too
high nor too low. It should have a layer of sacred grass (Kusha) on which should be placed a deer-
skin which should be spread upon a very clean piece of cloth - (preferably white). (11)
(163) Now I am telling this in detail, but it is useful only if it is actually tested by practical use.
When the study of yoga is intended, a proper place should be selected.
(164) That place should be such that once you sit there to take rest, you will not feel like getting up
for any reason and ‘desirelessness’ should be more acute there.
(165) That place should have been established by some saints by which, the peacefulness of the
mind becomes more developed and there is more courage
in it.
(166) There, the study of yoga should be possible naturally because of the atmosphere; and the heart
should enjoy peace by the beautiful environment there.
(167) O Arjuna! Even if a heretic approaches that place, he should feel like starting penance then
and there only.
(168) If a man full of worldly desires attends this place, he should forget to go back from here!
(169) This place is such that it ties down a man who does not want to wait, provokes a wanderer to
stay and it pats the quality of asceticism into wakefulness.
(170) By seeing this place, a man having great lust for sensual pleasures should think that he should
drop all his attachments to the kingdom of pleasures and remain quietly here.
(171) This place should be beautiful and so pure that one may see Brahman directly.
(172) Another quality of this place should be such that all the residents around it should be the
students of yoga.
(173) The trees here should be sweet even in their roots. They should be fully grown, thickly
situated and full of flowers and fruits, throughout the year.
(174) There should be water available everywhere even in other seasons than rainy-days and there
should be many brooks of water at every step.
(175) The sunrays should be tender and the breeze should be cool and slow.
(176) This place should be so thick with trees that there should be silence and not only wild animals
but also the noisy parrots or blue-beetles should not enter.
