(177) This place should be such that one or two swans or similar birds, or on rare occasions, a
cuckoo may come there.
(178) Though not regularly, peacocks may, on some occasions like to visit this place, which will be
tolerated.
(179) But O Arjuna, such a peculiar place will have to be searched with diligence and then a small
cave like structure of ‘Math’ (monastery) or a temple of Shiva may be constructed.
(180) One should build either of the two according to one’s liking and sit there quietly.
(181) The method of checking whether such a place is suitable for us is that we should reside there
for sometime and see whether our mind becomes quiet and still, and if so then that place should
be selected, and we should prepare our seating arrangement there.
(182) The seat should be such that at the base there should be unbroken grass-pieces of ‘darbha’, on
which there should be clean cloth properly spread. On top of this, there should be deer-skin.
(183) The ‘darbha’ pieces should be soft, of equal length and breadth and they should be placed
parallel, close to each other, so that they will not be disturbed.
(184) If this seat will be too high, it may be shaky and if it is too low, it is likely that our body will
touch the earth below and the defects of the ground may affect us.
(185) Therefore, it should be avoided; the seat should be at a suitable height and should be flat and
smooth. That much description is enough.
ततैकागं मनः क
ृ वा यतिच ेि दयिकयः|
उपिव यासने यु या ोगमा मिवशु ये
Sitting there on that seat, the student of yoga, having controlled the activities of the mind and
senses, should concentrate his mind and study yoga for self-purification. (12)
(186) Then sitting there and turning the mind towards one pointed remembrance of the spiritual
teacher he should remain in the state of self-experience.
(187) Then the hardness of pride is dissolved, the pious Sattwic attitude fills the heart by that
respectful memory.
(188) The worldly objects are forgotten; the anxious activity of the organs is quietened; and the mind
is totally folded into itself.
(189) The seeker should keep up the remembering of his teacher until there is naturally the state of
