unity and he should remain on that seat in that understanding.
(190) Then what happens? The body itself remains in its own balance and the Vayu (vital wind)
starts becoming integrated, thus the self-realization becomes clearer.
(191) When the student sits in this position, the outward movement turns back and comes to the state
of equilibrium, thus the study of yoga is achieved while he is sitting.
(192) Now I will tell you how the limbs should be positioned in this posture. The laps should be
folded tightly with the calfs.
(193) The lower soles of both the feet should be turned and the heels should be placed tightly near
the posteriors.
(194) The right heel should be so placed that the line of joining the two parts
near the anus on the upper side will be pressed and then the left heel will automatically be fixed
below it.
(195) There is a space of about four finger-breadths, between the scrotum and anus. The space of
one and a half finger-breadth should be left on both the sides, along the line.
(196) Then the middle part remains, measuring only one-finger breadth. There the back side of the
heel should be pressed neatly and carefully, so that the whole body, - thorax, - will be balanced
on it, slightly bent forward.
(197) The lowest part of the spine should be so slightly lifted from the ground and both the heels
should also be lifted together with it, in such a manner that it is not known that the body is so
slightly held up.
(198) O Arjuna, in this position the whole body will be held uprightly on the support of the heels.
(199) O Partha, this posture is called Moola-bandha (the base posture). This is also called
Vajrasana, (the hard steel-like posture).
(200) When in this way, the body is balanced on the root-chakra which is in the space between
scrotum and anus, the ‘apana’ wind in the intestines begins to contract and turn to the inner region
of the body.
समं कायिशरोगीवं धारय नचलं ि थरः|
संपे य नािसकागं वं िदश ानवलोकयन्
By holding the body, the head and the neck straight and vertically very still, he should sit without
moving, looking with both the eyes at the tip of his nose and should not look around in any direction.
