(213) He is not aware of what has happened to hunger and where the sleep has gone.
(214) The wind which is confined by the posture called ‘Moola-bandha’ turns in the opposite
direction and it creates great pressure, by being concentrated.
(215) Then becoming tremendously disturbed, that wind becomes very strong, starts roaring and
constantly gives shocks to the wheel called ‘Manipoor’ Chakra.
(216) When this disturbance of the wind is quietened it churns the body and throws out all the dross
which is saturated in it from childhood.
(217) Then as the wave of this Apana cannot be contained within itself, it enters the intestines and
disturbs the cough and the bile.
(218) Afterwards this Apana in its wild turbulance turns upside down the seas of seven essences in
the body, pulverises the mountains of fat, and takes out the marrow from inside the bones.
(219) It opens up the vein or channel of the breath, relaxes the limbs, which frightens the seeker but
the seeker should not be afraid.
(220) For though this Apana creates ailments by its movement, it also cures them immediately and it
dries up the liquid elements of cough and bile.
(221) In the center, O Arjuna due to the heat generated by the yogic posture, the serpent power
Kundalini awakens.
(222) It is like a young one of a serpent, sprinkled with red powder of Kum Kum.
(223) It normally remains asleep coiled with three and a half rounds around itself, with its hood
pointing downwards.
(224) It looks like a tube of electricity, or a round coil of flames or a folded bunch of golden sticks.
(225) It is called Kundalini, which is tightly tied up underneath the region of the navel. It is pricked
by the posture of Vajrasana and aroused.
(226) Then like a shooting star should travel or the seat of the sun should move or the seed of light
itself be sown and it should sprout,
(227) It loosens its coils and giving itself lazy twists, stands on the gland at the navel.
(228) It had been naturally very hungry for a long time and there is other cause namely, being pricked
by the ‘Vajrasana’. So it suddenly and forcefully opens up its mouth and raises it's head upwards.
