(229) O the crowned one! Just then it catches the Apana wind which has upto that time reached the
base of the heart.
(230) By the flames from its mouth, it touches every part of the body and starts to devour morsels of
flesh.
(231) It bites away and gulps lumps of flesh from every part of the body and in the end it eats some
part of the heart also.
(232) Then it attends to the work of cleaning the soles and the palms and also breaks down the upper
parts of the body. It does not spare joints and all the limbs from its eating spree.
(233) It does not spare the lower extremities. It carves even the life-force from the nails, squeezes
the skin and then this Kundalini attacks the bones.
(234) It cleanses the hollow parts of the bones and carves the dross from the veins. Then the growth
of the hair on the skin stops.
(235) Being very thirsty it makes a short work of gulping all the seven elements of the body such as
blood etc. and thus creates a veritable dry land in the whole body.
(236) Then it pulls back the outgoing breath which normally projects out about twelve finger-
breadths, so that it re-enters the lungs.
(237) In this state, the upper wind is suppressed downward and the lower wind is pressed upwards
and only the screens of the Chakras remain between both, hindering their meeting.
(238) Otherwise both the winds would have met each other quite earlier. But this Kundalini asks
them by being a bit annoyed, “Now it seems that only two of you are remaining. Go back. You
have no business here!’’
(239) Dear Arjuna, the hidden meaning of this is that the Kundalini finishes the element of earth and
wipes clean the element of water.
(240) When it eats up both the elements, it is satisfied completely and being quiet to some extent
remains near the Sushumna. (The central electromagnetic current in the spinal-cord, which is
made-up of super-physical force.)
(241) Then, there it throws out the residual of what it has eaten, which itself becomes life giving
nectar for the breath and it survives.
(242) The breath survives from the heat of that residual material but spreads coolness throughout the
body. Then in every limb the former vitality begins to be revived.
