(243) But as the sensory nervous system is not functioning and as all the nine types of wind are
merged into one vital breath only, bodily activities are suspended.
(244) Then the Ida and Pingala nerves from the left and right nostrils respectively are joined and
then the three knots are eased and the petals of the six Chakras are also shattered.
(245) Then the wind which is named as moon and sun in the left and right nostrils is reduced to such
extent that it is not able to make even a flame of a lamp flicker.
(246) Then the intellect stops its tricks and the sense of smell which is still remaining in the nose
also enters into the central stream of Sushumna together with that Kundalini.
(247) At this time, the nectar-filled pure pool between the eye-brows is toppled slightly and the cool
nectar drops into the mouth of Kundalini.
(248) Then that nectar- like juice permeates throughout the body and together with the vital breath, it
gets absorbed in each and every limb.
(249) When the crucible is very hot, the wax is burnt up and only the liquid metal remains in it.
(250) Similarly, in the form of the body, the seventeenth facet of moon as if becomes manifest but
only the cover of the skin is around it.
(251) The sun is covered by the veil of clouds but when the veil is removed, the sun again shines in
his full glory.
(252) Similarly the thin layer of skin on this brilliant form of the seventeenth facet is only a
superficial thing, but that also falls away like husk.
(253) Then the limbs begin to shine like the saffron or like a seed of a gem sprouting and becoming a
plant.
(254) Or the body seems to have been made by taking the red colours of an evening or to be a
reflection of the inner light of Atman.
(255) The body appears as if it is filled with Kumkum or moulded liquid energy or, I think that, the
body is peace incarnate.
(256) This body is as if the colour work of the picture of joy or the very image of self-bliss or as if
the plant of the tree of contentment is grown properly.
(257) The body seems as if a bud of Suvarna-Champak flower or a statue of nectar or it is a garden
of tenderness in full blossom.
