(258) It appears as if the moon is moistened by the wetness of Sharad-season or it is the light
incarnate sitting on a throne.
(259) When the Kundalini sips the nectar of the seventeenth facet, the body becomes so powerful that
‘Time’ is afraid of it.
(260) Then the manifestation of the signs of old-age disappears, the solid structure of youth also
disappears and the delicate form of childhood which was so far hidden, becomes evident.
(261) If we consider only the age, it appears to be child-like but it is so powerful that it cannot be
compared with anything.
(262) He grows new shining nails which appear as if it is the bud of gem on the new foliage of a
golden tree.
(263) He grows new teeth which are very small and appear as if small diamonds are arranged on
both insides of the jaw.
(264) The delicate hair on the body look like a field of particles of rubies spread all over.
(265) The palms and the soles look like lotuses and who can describe the eyes of that yogi, which
are as if washed clean?
(266) When the pearl is fully grown, it does not remain covered by the lips of the shell and that shell
slightly opens up.
(267) Similarly the eyelids are not able to contain fully the pupils of the eyes, and the pupils as if try
to come out. Though it is not fully exposed, the eyesight seems to envelop the whole sky from
horizon to horizon.
(268) Dear Arjuna, please understand that the body of this yogi is as brilliant as gold but its weight
is equal to air because there is no element of earth and water.
(269) This yogi then is able to see far away beyond the sea, can hear the divine music and can know
the thoughts in the mind of an ant.
(270) He rides the horse of the wind, and if he walks on water, his feet do not touch it. He possesses
many such occult faculties.
(271) O Partha, now please listen further. When Kundalini taking the support of Prana, making the
base of the heart-Chakra as a step to climb-up and climbs the middle stream of Sushumna and
reaches the heart,
(272) It should be recognised as the mother of this universe. It is the glory of Jeevatma, a shadow for
