the sprout of Om.
(273) It is the seat of Zero, the final nothing-ness and it is the round base of the phallic symbol of
Shiva or it is the open birth place of Om.
(274) Now, once this delicate Kundalini enters the heart-Chakra, there begin the various unbeaten
occult sounds of silence.
(275) There is the consciousness of intelligence, adjacent to this Kundalini power and that
consciousness begins to hear these sounds to a certain degree.
(276) There are ten types of sounds the first of which is like the deep roar of sea, and on that roar, as
if in an earthen pot, there are pictures of sounds drawn according to the shape of Om.
(277) This should be understood by imagination; but how can a man of imagination know it? Really
speaking, what type of sounds are created there, cannot be known.
(278) But O Arjuna, I forgot to tell you. So long as vital breath is not completely subsided, there is
definitely a sound going on in the space at the occult level, at the heart and the same sound keeps
on echoing.
(279) When the thundering sound of the silence starts repeating itself and echoing, the tenth door
which is called the door of Brahman automatically opens.
(280) O Arjuna, there is spirit in the cerebral centre, particularly in this door referred to above,
without any support. At the higher level in invisible state, this greater space is situated above the
space of heart-Chakra.
(281) When the deity Kundalini enters this greater space, it offers the food of light to this spirit.
(282) When there is this offering of pure food, where intellect is the vegetable, there remains no
duality.
(283) At this stage, the Kundalini power loses its shining brilliance and remains only as vital breath.
Do you want to know how it appears? Please listen.
(284) We feel that it was the statue of wind wearing a golden-garment, and now it has dropped that
garment and become naked.
(285) Or when a flame tries to embrace wind with love it is extinguished or the lightning appears for
a moment in the sky and immediately there is darkness.
(286) & (287) Similarly, this Kundalini power suddenly gets merged into the emptiness in the heart
region and at that moment one power is dissolved into the other power. This power appears like
