a chain of gold before entering into the heart region or seems to be flowing like a brook of light,
and it is this which is merged into the other power.
(288) We should call it power only, but it is the vital breath, but now the sound, the brilliance and
the lustre of it are not evident.
(289) At this stage, the things like the effort to conquer the mind, or to confine the wind, the breath,
or to regard meditation with higher respect, do not remain.
(290) Then there is neither conceiving a plan, projecting a thought or desiring or doubting anything.
So, this state should be imagined as a crucible in which all the five elements are dried up.
(291) Dnyaneshwar says, “Here, the Lord Shri Krishna has only made a mention of the process of
devouring the bulk of physical body by the subtle mass of higher principles, which is a secret of
Natha-Cult.
(292) Therefore, since I see here well-versed, intelligent listeners sitting in this meeting, I have
opened the package of indicative meaning and unfolded the real sense of his talk like a fold of
cloth.
यु ज नेवं सदा मानं योगी िनयतमानसः|
शांितं िनवाणपरमां म सं थामिधग छित
The yogi who thus controls his mind and regularly applies himself to the yoga practice, attains
that peace which dwells in me and which is beyond liberation. (15)
(293) Please listen. When the light of this power is thus transformed into invisible state, the form of
the body of this yogi also becomes invisible and he remains hidden from the vision of ordinary
worldly men and his real state is not recognized.
(294) He appears to be functioning like ordinary persons, but inwardly his body is like a thing made
of pure air.
(295) Or after the outer coverings of the trunk of a banana tree are removed, the inner core of white
trunk remains clear, or the sky may develop a limb out of itself. The yogi becomes so subtle.
(296) When he attains this stage, he is called “Khechara” (sky-walker). Then many miracles take
place due to and around his body.
(297) O Arjuna, when such a yogi walks, occult powers like power of becoming very small, follow
his every step.
(298) O Arjuna, why should we dwell upon the details of these powers? The main thing is that the
