elements of earth, water and light are gone from his body.
(299) The element of earth merges into water and the element of water merges into light and the
element of light is merged into the air which is in the heart-chakra.
(300) Then, only the air remains, and his body is only an appearance. After due lapse of time, that
air also gets dissolved into the space or Akasha element.
(301) That time the name Kundalini, is no more applicable and that power is given the name
MARUTI, but so long as it does not become united with Shiva, its nature as a “power” still
remains.
(302) Then it discards the Jallandhar posture earlier described, and the “Sushumna” nerve which is
at the Brow-Chakra, is opened by it at its mouth and it enters the opening, the small orifice of
Brahman - which is at the place.
(303) Then it goes beyond AUM by stepping on its back, and also goes beyond the speech which is
called Pashyanti (or witness).
(304) Then as a river enters the sea, the power enters the last syllable “M” (Makar) of the AUM
(305) Being steady in the door of the Brahman (beyond the brow-chakra) it spreads its arms of
Soham and forcefully embraces the Brahman.
(306) Then the veil of five elements is removed and the power and the Brahman are united with each
other. Together with the element of the sky, it becomes one with Brahman and disappears.
(307) The water from the ocean becomes vapour and takes the form of cloud. It falls into rivers etc.
as rain water, and again merges into the sea, thus taking its original form.
(308) Similarly the Jeevatman through the use of body enters the Paramatman and they both become
one.
(309) Now there is no scope to say whether there still remains some duality or the whole thing is
only one single unit.
(310) Now this state being as if sky being dissolved into the sky and is such that it is understood only
when there is actual experience.
(311) Therefore we do not find words which can catch its description at the level of dialogue.
(312) Dear Arjuna, normally the articulate speech which is proud of its power of expression
becomes unable to do anything in this matter and remains aloof.
