(313) In the space between the brows, there is only a thin impediment of the syllable “M” of the
AUM, but even to go through it the vital breath finds it very difficult.
(314) When it merges into the space in the opening of Brahman and becomes united, the power of
word comes to an end because there is nothing to describe. Then the next step is the dissolution of
the sky or the space also.
(315) When that takes place, that small space becomes insignificant and lost in the greater cosmic
space. Then what can word do there?
(316) Therefore, this matter is not so simple or ordinary as can be contained in the ambit of speech
or as can be heard by ears - this is the total truth.
(317) If you are fortunate enough, you may take direct experience and become Atman - this much can
only be said.
(318) Since there is no object to be known at that level, O Arjuna, why should we repeat this?
(319) Thus the place from where the words turn back, where mental projection is destroyed and
thought cannot even enter.
(320) That which is the beauty of supramind, the glorious youth of the fourth state of mind, and which
is without beginning; and is the highest principle which is immeasurable.
(321) Which is the original seed of the universe, that which is the final goal of yoga- practice and
that which is the life-principle of pure joy.
(322) That, where the form disappears, the solitude of liberation exists and the boundaries of
beginning and end become nil.
(323) That which is the primary cause of five great elements, that which is the brilliance of the
greatest luminosity, and in short, O Arjuna, that which should be understood as my primordial
being , the Atman is Brahman.
(324) And that which had to assume this form of human being with four arms because his devotees
are harassed by atheists, on mass scale -
(325) That principle of Paramatman is embodiment of highest happiness and is beyond any
description. But those great seekers have attained the self, and have ceaselessly made efforts till
they have achieved the final goal.
(326) These people who have fulfilled the very purpose of having a physical body as described
above, become equal to me in all respects by being completely pure, by Yoga.
