(327) When we see at their lustrous body, we feel that they are the statues moulded into the crucible
of body by pouring in it, the liquid juice of Para-brahman.
(328) If such is the experience in the whole life of that man, he does not see the universe but only the
absolute Brahman." Listening to this, Arjuna, said, “O Lord, what you say is surely true!”
(329) Because, O Lord, the method which you explained just now leads us to realize clearly the
Brahman.
(330) Those who practise this yoga with firm determination, definitely reach the Brahman – this is
clear to me as you have told.
(331) Which is understood by my mind even from what you have described. But one who has
actually experienced this, will be totally merged in it. There is nothing strange about this.
(332) Now, therefore, I have nothing to ask further about this subject. But one thing I shall talk about,
to which you may please pay attention.
(333) O Lord, I agree with the system of yoga which you have told but as I am not so able, it is not
possible for me to study it.
(334) If this yoga can be successfully practised with whatever meagre strength I have, then I will
easily study it.
(335) Or since I do not have the capacity to bring into practice what you are telling, I am thinking of
asking you for something that can be suitable for a weak-willed person like me.
(336) I am asking this because my mind has such a desire” - So saying, Arjuna said further, “O Lord,
please listen.”
(337) I have listened to everything which you have told to practise, but is it possible that anybody
can do it or is it such a study which cannot be undertaken without having certain qualifications?
(338) Dnyaneshwar says, “Please listen to what Shri krishna said to Arjuna in this respect.”
(339) The Lord said, “This is no doubt a very critical task in the spiritual path but, O Arjuna! Is it
possible to do even an ordinary work without the capacity of the doer?
(340) But what you say as capacity can be proved only by actually doing something successfully,
because only that task can be successful which is undertaken by a man with the necessary strength.
(341) But there is no problem about such capacity here. Further I may ask you, whether there is any
‘mine’ of capacity, so that as soon as you come upon it, you may have any capacity?
