(342) Will not a man who becomes desireless and starts performing his duties about his physical life
only regularly and properly, be having necessary capacity?
(343) Shrikrishna further said - “By performing the ordained duties without attachment or emotions,
you can also develop the capacity.” - and he thus removed the fear in the mind of Arjuna.
(344) Then the Lord said to Arjuna, “In this matter, it is the rule that one who does not perform his
duties by being desireless, will not have this capacity at all.
ना य त तु योगोऽि त न चैका तमन तः|
न चाित व नशील य जागतो नैव चाजुन
O Arjuna, this yoga is neither for him who overeats, nor for him who observes a complete fast; it
is neither for him who sleeps much nor even for him who remains continuously awake. (16)
(345) “He who is a slave to his tongue, or sold out to sleep is not called eligible on this path.
(346) Or being confined into adamant determination, denies himself food and drink, and cruelly
observes acute fasting.
(347) Or by tremendous tension, he does not sleep at all and is always restless. Even his body is not
under his control. Then what about practice of yoga?
(348) Therefore, for being eligible to practise yoga, there should not be heavy indulgence in sensual
pleasure, nor denial of objects to the senses or hatred of any object.
यु ाहारिवहार य यु चे य कमसु|
यु व नावबोध य योगो भवित दुःखहा
Yoga becomes a source of destroying sorrow for a person who is moderate in the taking of food
of proper kind and self-controlled in behaviour as also properly poised in all activities, and who is
having regularity in sleeping and waking up. (17)
(349) As regards food; that should be strictly pure and regular, not too much and not too little, and
all the actions should also be done in the same measured moderate manner.
(350) One should walk gracefully in a slow and careful manner and talk in measured words, and one
should take sleep at proper and regular hour.
(351) Even when one has to remain awake, that should be within the limits of taking care of one’s
health, so that all the elements in the body (bones, flesh, nerves, blood, hair, nails, cough, water,
sweat, semen, bile etc.) are in their right proportions.
