motherly home of all religious observances.
(445) There he conducts his affairs strictly according to the moral code, talks only that which is
clean and true, and sees everything from scientific view point.
(446) For him, Veda is the security guard always awake to protect him, religion is his normal daily
action, and discrimination between essential and unessential is his consultant minister.
(447) In his home meditation is wedded to the God, and prosperity and spiritual powers are family
deities.
(448) Such is the fruit of his good deeds, where complete happiness is the enhanced condition of
life, and in this way that yogi who was unsuccessful in the last birth, takes next birth, with all the
good environment.
अथवा योिगनामेव क
ु ले भवित धीमताम्|
एति दुलभतरं लोक
े ज म यदी शम्
तत तं बुि संयोगं लभते पौवदेिहकम्|
यतते च ततो भूयः संिस ौ क
ु नंदन
Or he is born in the intellectual people's family of yogis. Such birth is very rare in this world.
(42)
There he then receives anew the advanced intelligence obtained by yoga in the past birth, and O
the son of Kurus! He again tries to attain the liberation from that stage onwards. (43)
(449) Or he takes birth in the family of persons dedicated to daily fire-worship and knowledge, who
are the preachers of Brahman and who are the chiefs of the town of great spiritual happiness.
(450) Those who sit on the throne of final truth, reign supreme in the three worlds and who are as if
the cuckoos singing in the garden of contentment.
(451) He is born in the family of those who are always sitting near the root of discrimination - the
tree which gives food of 'eternity.'
(452) His body is apparently young and small, but there is in his life the dawn of self-knowledge,
just as there is light before actual sunrise.
(453) Thus, not waiting for his attaining maturity, not waiting for his being a grown up man, the
omniscience comes and weds him is his childhood only.
(454) By his self-luminous intuition, his mind gives the milk of great literary works of spiritual
