knowledge; and all kinds of divine revelations of scriptures become manifest in him of their own
accord.
(455) Such is his rebirth, for which gods are desirous and perform Yadnyas and repeat the name of
Almighty.
(456) O Partha, he gets such birth of good quality that the gods would covet this mundane world in
order to be lucky to be so born.
पूवा यासेन तेनैव िहयते वशोऽिप सः|
िज ासुरिप योग य श दब ाितवतते
He being now controlled even so far, by discipline, by study in earlier birth, is attracted and takes
to the life of a yogi. Even if there is a simple curiosity about yoga in him, he is already beyond the ken
of the Vedas. Which is the Brahman in the shape of ‘word’. (44)
(457) And the intelligence which was in him at the end of past birth, is renewed in this life.
(458) Then just as hidden treasures are easily seen by a person who is lucky, who is born with feet
first and who has put ointment in his eyes which gives clairvoyance,
(459) His intellect grasps the difficult problems without effort, which are impenetrable and only
decipherable by the help of the expert Master.
(460) The powerful senses are withdrawn into the mind, which is unified with the vital breath and
that also starts being merged into the sky.
(461) We do not know how wonderfully the study of yoga gives him this stage and how the trance
comes enquiring about his home address!
(462) This yogi is as if the presiding deity of the sacred place of yoga, or he is the glory of the
divine lady of Beginning, or the incarnated and manifest experience of complete Renunciation.
(463) He is as if the pot to measure up the totality of worldly life, or treasure island of the eight-fold
practice of yoga, or the fragrance itself assuming the form of sandalwood.
(464) Similarly, he is as if built with the material of contentment itself, or taken out afresh from the
reservoir of all occult powers; - such is the completeness of his attainment of the stage of a
seeker.
पय ना तमान तु योगी संशु िकि बशः|
अनेकज मसंिस ततो याित परां गितम्
