The yogi trying to attain the final stage of liberation, becomes cleansed of all sins, and by
perfection achieved through many incarnations, reaches that ultimate goal. (45)
(465) Since he has reached the shore of self-realization after thousands of years and surmounting the
hurdles of thousands of incarnations.
(466) All the means of penance come to him naturally and he sits on the throne of discrimination,
without effort.
(467) Then naturally the speed of discrimination is also slackened and that which cannot be grasped
by thought, which is Brahman, is easily achieved by him.
(468) There the screen of delusion is removed from the mind, the nature of vital breath as such
comes to an end, and the sky is merged into itself. (All differences are dissolved.)
(469) The topmost manifestation of AUM is sunk into unity, where he enjoys the ultimate bliss which
is indescribable, and therefore words come back, not able to reach him.
(470) He thus becomes the concrete manifestation of Abstract Brahman, which is the final goal of all
goals, and remains in that state.
(471) In so many past births he had removed the moss from the water in the time-measuring pot; so,
at the time of his birth only, the pot is sunk in the water of liberation at the exact moment. (His
final unity is achieved) (This pot is used to decide exact auspicious time for wedding of bride
and bridegroom by putting it on the surface of water which enters into it gradually from a hole at
the bottom and fills it fully in exactly twenty-four minutes.)
(472) He is wedded with identification with Brahman and becomes himself THAT, just as the sky
remains in its pure clear existence when clouds pass away.
(473) Similarly, he, while having his physical body, becomes THAT from where the universe begins
and where it is merged in the end.
तपि व योऽिधको योगी ािन योऽिप मतोऽिधकः|
किम योऽ यिधको योगी त मा ोगी भवाजुन
O Arjuna, yogi is considered superior to those who are still doing penance, superior to men of
knowledge and superior also to those who are attached to rituals. Therefore you should be a yogi.
(46)
(474) Hoping to gain which, people who are lovers of rituals, jump into the stream of six types of
Karma, putting their trust in the patient courage. (Six Karmas are learning, teaching, performing
rituals, advising to perform them, to give and to receive charitable funds)
