(487) Then the Lord Shrikrishna knew that the interest of Partha in listening to this advice, which
was quite sincere from the beginning has now been doubly increased.
(488) Therefore, Shrikrishna was naturally very happy in his mind, by seeing that Arjuna is grasping
his teaching like a mirror reflecting objects truly. He will now explain this subject more, in the
same happy mood –
(489) That is given in the next chapter. The peaceful mood is so intense in it that there will be a
sprouting of the seed of the Main Principle of Vedanta in it.
(490) This will be so, because by the rain of Sattwic quality, the clods of the sense of separateness
of Jeeva are broken into clay and the beds of the sharp minds of the listeners are ready with that
moisture, to hold the seeds in them.
(491) Over and above, there is the gold - like helpful vapoured warmth, by seeing which, Shri
Nivrutti (my Guru) has a heart to sow the seeds.
(492) Dnyaneshwar says - “In this work of sowing the seeds, my Guru has used me as the utensil, to
hold the seeds awhile and placing his benedictary palm on my head, has put the seeds in it which
are to be sown.
(493) Therefore, whatever is uttered by this mouth is liked by the saints as a truth; but let that be! We
will tell further what Shriranga (Lord Shrikrishna) spoke.
(494) But it should be listened to by the ears of the mind, the words spoken should be seen by the
eyes of intellect and should be exchanged with your conscious attention.
(495) They should be taken into the heart by the hand of attention, so that they will please the hearts
of the saints.
(496) These words will make the self-welfare easy to attain, they will enliven the final result of
freedom and offer to the Jeeva, lot of happiness.
(497) Now I am going to tell in the form of Ovi meter, what Shri Mukunda will say to Arjuna in a
joyful, affectionate and cultured manner.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे आ मसंयमयोगो नाम ष ोऽ यायः
Thus in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of knowledge of Brahman, in the scripture
of yoga, and in the dialogue of Shri Krishna and Arjuna, the sixth chapter by name the Yoga of Self-
control, is ended. (6)
