(17) You may ask, what are the eight parts of this Prakriti. If such a question is in your mind, please
listen to the same classification.
(18) Water, fire, sky, earth, air, mind, intellect and ego are its different eight parts.
अपरे यिमत व यां पक
ृ ितं िवि मे पराम्|
जीवभूतां महाबाहो ययेदं धायते जगत्
This is my lower Nature in the material world. There is my higher Prakriti, (Nature) other than
this which is in the form of Jeeva or the life principle by which the whole world is sustained and held
together. (5)
(19) Dear Partha, the homogeneous unity in equilibrium of all these eight elements is my higher
nature which is the essence of life principle,
(20) Which gives life to inanimate things, gives energy to the moving principles and makes mind
sensitive to sorrow or attraction.
(21) The quality of knowing which is inherent in the intellect is the result of contact with this Maya
and the pride or ego which is the expression of this Maya, keeps the world in existence.
एत ोनीिन भूतािन सवाणी युपधारय|
अहं क
ृ न य जगतः पभवः पलय तथा
O Arjuna, know that all beings are born from this Prakriti and that I am the beginning and the
dissolution of the whole universe. (6)
(22) When the subtle nature creates the forms of the crude elements according to its liking, the mint
of the creation of living beings is also started.
(23) From this mint there are minted four coins with particular prints appearing on them
automatically in that process. They are - beings born in omniotic fluid, eggs, sweat, and earth.
They are of the same value but they are classified differently.
(24) The total number of the species is eighty-four lakhs. Further sub-speecies are numberless. The
shrine room of formless abstract void is filled with innumerable coins which are living-beings.
(25) In this way, there are such a great number of coins made out of the five elements, of equal value
and only the Prakriti can keep a count of them.
(26) The coin which the Prakriti casts by preplanned structure and nature, is afterwards melted by it
only but in the period in between, it conducts both the action and inaction by using that coin.
