(45) Know that I am the strength of the strong which is very firm and I am the pure intellect of the
intelligent people.
(46) I am the desire in the hearts of beings which is religious, and superior to the ordinary desire for
money- so said Atmaram!
(47) This desire generally tries to fulfil normal aspirations according to the worldly life but does not
allow the sense organs to work against religion.
(48) This desire leaves the crooked path of total renunciation and turns towards the highway of
performance of proper duties as laid down by scriptures and there is the torch of ‘regularity’ held
in its hand.
(49) When the desire is so careful in its functions, there is fulfillment of religion only in it and thus
the persons who are enjoying this worldly life also become the free souls residing in the sacred
place of liberation.
(50) This 'desire' raises the creeper of outward universe on the pandal of greatness praised by
Vedas, and the foliage of that creeper reaches high towards the state of freedom.
(51) The leader of all yogi's said, ‘‘I am the derise which is the seed producing all the Beings.
(52) How far should I tell you in detail? In short I may say that all the Beings, viz. this expanse of
existence, is developed from me.
ये चैवः साि वका भावा राजसा तामसा ये|
म एवेित ताि वि न वहं तेषु ते मिय
And please understand that whatever the qualities such as Sattwik, Rajas and Tamas are there,
are from me only. But I am not in them. They are in me. (12)
(53) Please recognize that all the qualities, namely Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas are born out of me.
(54) Though they are born out of me, I am not in them, just as in a pond seen in our dream, our
waking consciousness is never drowned.
(55) The small seed is full of the juice in the fruit, but while growing into a tree, it becomes solid
wood.
(56) And if you search in that hard wood, do you find the quality of that seed in it? Similarly the
distortions of these qualities appear to have been born from me but I am not caught in them.
(57) For example, the clouds are in the sky but the pure sky is not in the clouds and if there is water
