(68) Now O Dhananjaya, the question is how the Jeeva has to come to me in my real nature by
crossing over this Prakriti of mine which is composed of elements like Mahat etc.
(69) First on the peak of the mountain of the absolute Brahman, there was a small bubble of the five
great elements, formed by the water of primary thought, the wish which created a spray.
(70) Then with crescendo increasing with the lapse of time, it turned itself into the stream of the
construction of the universe and collapsed from the two high cliffs of “the path of action and the
path of renunciation” in that process becoming extremely turbulent.
(71) Then the great ‘flow’ of attraction started from the flood developed by the incessant ‘rain’ of
the three qualities of Sattwa, Raja and Tama. This flood inundated and swept away the two cities
of ‘control of mind’ and ‘control of sense organs.’
(72) In this river, there are numberless whirlpools of ‘malice’ and bends of ‘jealously’ and great
fish of ‘arrogance and sullenness’ shine.
(73) In this river, there are many turn outs and complex confusions of worldly life and in the great
forceful flow, there is lot of refuse and dry leaves etc. of pain and pleasure floating onwards
continuously.
(74) In this river, there are waves of lust breaking like surf on the shore of the island of pleasurable
enjoyments and the Jeevas are collected and caught as foam on that shore.
(75) In this river, there are turbulences because of pride which are ‘the pride about knowledge,
pride about money and pride about strength.’ There are also waves of the desires for sense
objects.
(76) In that river, the flowing streams of creation and destruction, pools of birth and death are
formed in which bubbles of the world of five elements are continuously being formed.
(77) In that river, the fish of attraction and illusion cut away pieces of flesh from courage and eat
them, and by taking round turns of ignorance they remain roaming everywhere.
(78) In that river of Maya, the delusion becomes the mud in the faith, and the sound of Rajas is heard
high in the heaven.
(79) In that river the streams of Tamas are many and forceful, and the smoothness of Sattwa (the
pious nature) becomes an impediment in the way of floating to the other shore. This river of Maya
is thus very difficult to cross.
(80) In this river, with the surging waters of births and deaths, the forts in the Satya Lok heaven
collapse and round boulders of universes go on rolling.
