(81) The great flood of this river is not slowed down or stopped because of the force of its waters.
Such is the spate of the river of Maya. Who can cross this river?
(82) The wonder of this river is that whatever a man tries to do in order to cross it, becomes itself a
hindrance in the way. Please listen how this happens.
(83) Some relying on their intellect, entered this river, but they were not traced, and some were
drowned in the pond of pride by their ego.
(84) Some others tied around their bodies the three Vedas as help to swim, but together with them
they also tied stones of pride and, therefore the big fish of arrogant sullen-ness gulped them in one
piece.
(85) Some took the support of the strength of their youth and pursued the attraction towards objects
of enjoyment by which the crocodiles of sense objects masticated them partially and threw them
away.
(86) Then, they are caught in the nets of loss of memory in the wave of old age.
(87) Then, being thrown on the rocks of sorrow, being suffocated in the whirlpools of lust, wherever
they put their heads up, the vultures of calamities peck at them.
(88) Then, being smeared by the mud of pain, they are, in the end, caught in the quicksand of death.
Thus the men who are mad after sense objects are totally lost.
(89) Some others took the raft of performance of 'sacrifices in fire' and tied it below their belly but
they were thrown by the flow of life into the crevice of heavenly pleasures.
(90) Some others took the help of their arms of Karma with a hope to attain liberation but they were
caught directly in the vortex of doubt about what is to be done and what is not be done.
(91) It is sometimes possible to float, on the plank of yoga to some extent, when the boat of
desirelessness cannot float and the rope of discrimination cannot reach, but that is very rare.
(92) When anybody says that it is possible for Jeeva to cross this river of Maya, what can we use as
a simile to such a foolish statement? I shall explain.
(93) If the ailment of a patient who does not follow the rules of diet, will be cured; if a saint will
know the evil thinking of a rogue, if a greedy man can give up great fortune which he has luckily
achieved.
(94) If thieves will ever sit in a conference, or if a fish can eat the bait safely or if a coward will
fight back bravely the female-ghost,
