(95) Or if a young one of deer will snap the net or an ant can easily climb and go beyond the mount
Meru, then only the Jeeva can see the other shore of this river of Maya, with his own strength.
(96) Therefore O Arjuna, just as a hen-pecked husband cannot control his wife, so the Jeeva cannot
cross this river of Maya, the great illusion.
(97) Those who worship me with total devotion can only cross this river very easily. They have not
to go to the other shore at all, because while they are on this shore, the waters of this river are
suddenly dried up.
(98) Those who have got an expert swimmer like Sadguru as guide and those who have tightly held
the support of experience and those who have got the raft of self-knowledge,
(99) Those who have thrown down the burden of ego, saved themselves from the wind of doubt,
those who have escaped the central speedy flow of attachment to family;
(100) Those who have selected the time and place of shallow waters and tied the log of self
knowledge around them and then have crossed quickly to the other shore of freedom from hope,
(101) They use the front strokes of the hands of ‘ascetic desirelessness’, float on the strength of the
realisation viz. ‘I AM BRAHMAN’, and go without much trouble to the shore of total
withdrawal.
(102) Those who have worshipped me in this manner have crossed my Maya in this way, but such
devotees are not many; they are very rare.
न मां दु क
ृ ितनो मूढाः पप ते नराधमाः|
माययाऽप त ाना आसुरं भावमािशताः
चतुिवधा भज ते मां जनाः सुक
ृ ितनोऽजुन|
आत िज ासुरथाथ ानी च भरतषभ
Those whose wisdom has been snatched away by Maya and who have resorted to evil nature like
that of demons and who are foolish, evil doers, and vile men, do not surrender to me. (15)
O Arjuna, the greatest among Bharatas, even among good people of noble deeds, there are four
types of persons who worship me. They are the afflicted, the seeker of knowledge, the seeker of
worldly possessions and the man of wisdom. (16)
(103) Many others who are not so devoted are influenced by pride and therefore forget self-
knowledge.
(104) Vedas say that when the ego possesses a man, the self-control which is a garment to protect the
