virtue is forgotten and one is not ashamed of down-fall and such people do what should not be
done.
(105) O Arjuna, by giving up the very purpose for which they have come to the town of this body,
(106) the beings chattering out of their pride on the highway in the city of sense-organs, collect a
mob of various vices, like desire and anger.
(107) and when the weapon of pain and sorrow continuously slashes at them, their memory about
themselves is lost, the main cause of which is this Maya,
(108) and, therefore, they have missed me. Please listen. There are four categories of my devotees
who have taken care of their own welfare; they are -
(109) 1. The afflicted, 2. The seeker of knowledge, 3. The seeker of worldly possessions, and 4.
Man of wisdom.
तेषां ानी िन ययु एकभि िविश यते|
िपयो िह ािननोऽ यथमहं स च मम िपयः
Of these, the best is the man of wisdom, always established in unity with me, who has one-
pointed devotion. For, I am extremely dear to this wise man and he is also extremely dear to me. (17)
(110) Among these, the man who is suffering in his life becomes my devotee in order to be free from
sorrow, the seeker of knowledge becomes my devotee with the hope of having knowledge while
the third worships me with a hope to have more worldly possessions.
(111) The fourth type of devotee has no work to be done and, therefore, that man of wisdom is my
real devotee.
(112) For, in the light of that knowledge, the darkness of the sense of separateness is removed and he
becomes one with me and still remains a devotee.
(113) When an ordinary person looks at a crystal stone on which water is flowing, he thinks for a
moment that the crystal is water. This man of knowledge is not to be mistaken like that. There is
no wonder about this.
(114) When the wind is still, it does not remain separate as wind, but only the sky is perceived.
Similarly if that man of wisdom becomes one with me, there is no scope to say that he is a
devotee, a separate entity.
(115) If the air is moved, the wind is felt separately but otherwise it is one with the sky.
(116) Similarly people see the man of wisdom, while he is doing something with his body, and think
