that he is a devotee, but really he is one with me by his experiencing of the Atman.
(117) He says, “I amAtman” and knows it in the light of his knowledge, and in turn I also, out of my
upsurging love, call him “Atman.”
(118) My Dear, when he recognises the unity of Atman beyond the state of Jeeva and starts to act in
that supreme state, does he really become separate from absolute principle of Atman only
because he is having a body?
उदाराः सव एवैते ानी वा मैव मे मतम्|
आि थतः स िह यु ा मा मामेवानु मां गितम्
Indeed, all these devotees are noble, but the devotee who is wise is my very self. This is my
sincere opinion, for, such a devotee is firmly established in me alone, as his supreme goal, with his
mind and intellect totally established in me. (18)
(119) Thus just to achieve their welfare many persons try to be attached to me, but only the man of
wisdom is one whom I really love and who worships me only out of love.
(120) For example, for the selfish end of getting milk, everywhere people tie a rope around the legs
of a cow or tie her to a pole but without doing all these things, just see how the calf gets what it
wants.
(121) This is because the calf does not know anything else physically or psychologically and
whatever it sees, it thinks it to be its mother.
(122) The cow also, seeing that this young one is completely helpless and forlorn without its mother,
loves it with the depth which only a mother knows - Saint Dnyaneshwar says - “Therefore what
the Lord, the spouse of Goddess Laxmi, said about the man of wisdom is really a truism.”
(123) Let it be. The Lord said further, “O Arjuna, the three types of devotees to whom I referred just
now are also more than ordinary people and I also like them.
(124) & (125) But those, after having realised me have forgotton to turn back just as a river which is
on the verge of meeting the sea does not turn back, similarly the Ganges of realisation which is
arisen in the mind of such a man has become one with the ocean of my reality. That devotee is
surely undividedly one with me - Why should I dwell upon this more?
(126) Really speaking the man of wisdom is the unqualified pure spirit, the pure Atman, which is
myself. This is not a thing to be talked about, but I spoke! It cannot be helped.
बहनां ज मनाम ते ानवा मां पप ते|
