वासुदेवः सविमित स महा मा सुदुलभः
After many births, the man of wisdom comes to know that everything is permeated by God
(Vasudev). Such a great personage is very rare. (19)
(127) From the beginning, this man of wisdom avoids the various vices like desire, anger, etc. which
are rampant in the dense forest of various objects and slowly climbs the table-land of pure noble
emotion.
(128) O! The great warrior Arjuna, he gets the opportunity of being in the company of saints, avoids
the bylanes of renunciation of Karma and comes upon the highway of the yoga of doing right
action.
(129) He then travels by the same path, for many births. In this journey, he does not use even the
shoes of hope, then what of keeping a hope for fruit?
(130) In this way, while he is travelling throughout the night of Maya of bearing physical bodies in
every birth for many births, he alone walks on the path of Kamayoga by giving up the desires,
suddenly there is dawn of knowledge when his Karma comes to an end.
(131) At the same time, it is the morning of receiving the grace of Guru and there is a shaft of light of
knowledge in which, before his eyes, becomes manifest the great riches of unity, devoid of any
sense of separateness.
(132) In this state, in whatever direction he sees, he sees me only and if he sits quiet, without looking
anywhere, I am always visible to his inner consciousness.
(133) Enough of this description. He sees nothing else anywhere except me. For a pot merged in the
water, there is only water inside and out.
(134) Similarly as he is merged in me, I am inside him as well as outside; but this state is not
describable in words.
(135) Therefore, I simply tell that when the store-house of the riches of knowledge is thus open to
him, he uses that knowledge in the daily transactions with others and thus he makes friends with
all the universe.
(136) As his consciousness is full of juice of experience that all the creation is God (Vasudeva), he
is surely the great devotee as well as a truly wise person.
(137) The store house of his self-realisation is so vast that all the animate and inanimate creation is
contained in it. Dear Arjuna, rare is such a great personage.
(138) There are many many devotees who worship me with some expectation and who are blind in
