(146) Such a devotee gets that fruit which he has so long held dear to his heart, but that fruit is also
created by me.
अ तव ु फलं तेषां त व य पमेधसाम्|
देवा देवयजो याि त म ा याि त मामिप
The fruit desired by those devotees of little intelligence is temporary, eventually perishable. The
worshippers of gods reach those gods and my devotees come to me. (23)
(147) But those devotees do not come out of their narrow concept and thought and have absolutely
no knowledge about me, and therefore whatever fruit they get is not eternal, it is destined to come
to an end.
(148) Not only this! By such devotion, only the worldly life becomes stronger, because being devoid
of self-knowledge, all these fruits and achievements are as momentary as the dream which one
sees passingly.
(149) But if we keep this thought aside, it is true that the devotee reaches that deity’s place of which
he performs that worship, and becomes one with it.
(150) But others, who follow my path with their mind, body and possessions are united with me after
their bodily death.
अ य ं यि माप नं म य ते मामबु यः|
परं भावमजान तो ममा ययमनु मम्
Those who are ignorant, do not understand my existence which is imperishable and supreme, and
think me, who am unmanifest, to have become manifest. (24)
(151) But ordinary beings do not know me and do like this. They, in vain, suffer the loss of their own
benefit and try to swim in water held in their palms.
(152) Why should we jump into the sea of nectar and shut our lips and longingly think of dirty water
in a rotten pond?
(153) Why should we enter into nectar and try to die forcefully? Why should we not become nectar
and remain in it?
(154) Similarly, O Arjuna, why should we not come out of the cage of desire for fruit and spread our
wings of experience and take a flight in the sky of knowledge and be the rulers there?
(155) We come up on such a vast space of happiness achieved by our adventure of flying so high that
we may at our own sweet will take any flight anywhere.
