(156) Why should one try to measure that immeasurable bliss in the self? Why should one conceive a
form for me who am invisible and abstract? Why should one try to invent various ways and means
to reach me when I am self-evident in every creature; and thus why should one be ‘dead’?
(157) But O Arjuna, if such questions are asked, generally these souls do not like them.
नाहं पकाशः सव य योगमायासमावृतः|
मूढोऽयं नािभजानाित लोको मामजम ययम्
I am not very evident to all, because I am hidden from their sight by the created world of Maya.
Therefore, these confused people do not know me as beyond birth and destruction. (25)
(158) These souls are blinded by the influence of Prakruti and therefore they cannot see me in the
day-light of knowledge.
(159) Otherwise is there anything in which I am not? My Dear, which water is not liquid?
(160) Whom does the wind not touch? Or is there any place where there is no sky? But let it be. The
truth is that I am alone pervading all the universe.
वेदाहं समतीतािन वतमानािन चाजुन|
भिव यािण च भूतािन मां तु वेद न क न
O Arjuna, I know everything that has been, and all that which exists, and also the beings which
will exist in future. But nobody knows me. (26)
(161) O Arjuna, whatever things and whoever had been in the past were myself and those who are
existing at present are also myself.
(162) And also the beings which will come into existence in future are also not separate from me.
This is also a matter of false language. Really nothing comes and nothing goes.
(163) Just as a serpent appearing by illusion on a rope, cannot be classified as black or patchy or
reddish, similarly as the beings are themselves illusory, we cannot say anything about them.
(164) In this way, O Arjuna, when I am so pervading every being, these souls are entangled in the
worldly life, the nature of which is quite a different thing, (which will be presently described).
इ छा ेषसमु थेन मोहेन भारत|
सवभूतािन संमोहं सग याि त परंतप
O Bharat, who harasses his enemies! All the beings suffer illusion at the time of creation by the
