false concept of duality which is caused by likes and dislikes. (27)
(165) Now I will tell something about this worldly life, which please listen. When the ‘ego’ and the
‘body’ fell in love with each other,
(166) Then the daughter by name ‘desire’ was born. Then this daughter became young and she had
physical relationship with ‘hatred.’
(167) Then to this couple of ‘desire’ and ‘hatred’, the confusion called ‘duality’ was born. Then it
was brought-up carefully by the grandfather, namely the ‘ego.’
(168) This son became enemy of mental courage and became such a rogue that he could not be
tethered to the control of sense-organs. Then by being fattened by the milk viz. ‘Hope’,
(169) He became drunk by the wine of ‘discontent’ and started to live in the room of sense objects in
the company of abnormalcy or vice.
(170) Then he spread the thorns of doubts and misgivings in the path of pure emotion and brought
into use the crooked lanes of wrong action.
(171) All the souls have thus been confused and entangled because of this duality and therefore they
have been stranded in the forest of worldly life, and are under the rod of great sorrow.
येषां व तगतं पापं जनानां पु यकमणाम्|
ते मोहिनमु ा भज ते मां ढवताः
However those who have performed good deeds and therefore whose sin has ended, worship me
with firm determination about orderly life, being free of the confusion of duality. (28)
(172) But those who see the thorns of false doubts and misgivings do not remain even for a moment
near the confusion of duality.
(173) Those who by firm steps, crush under their feet, all the thorns of thoughts and counter-
thoughts, cross the forest of great sins and go beyond,
(174) and those by the strength of their merits run fast and quickly reach near me. What can I say
about them? They escape from the robbers viz. the desire and anger.
जरामरणमो ाय मामािश य यति त ये|
ते ब ति दुः क
ृ नम या मं कम चािखलम्
They take resort in me and make efforts to be free from old age and death. They realise Brahman,
Adhyatma and all Karma. (29)
