(175) Then O Arjuna, this whole matter of birth and death comes to an end as a result of the efforts
made by them through their faith.
(176) Their effort becomes fruitful after a certain time and then they obtain the great ripe fruit of
absolute Reality from which the sweet juice of fullness is continuously flowing.
(177) Then for them there is a sense of fulfillment and the whole world becomes impregnated by that
feeling and the novelty of spirituality comes to its perfection; the necessity of doing any action
comes to an end, and their mind is happily peaceful.
(178) O Dhananjaya, those who invest me as the capital in their efforts on this path gain this profit of
self-realization.
(179) With the growth and development of their quality of equilibrium, the cultivation of unity also
increases. There the poverty of separateness has no place.
सािधभूतािधदैवं मां सािधय ं च ये िवदुः|
पयाणकालेऽिप च मां ते िवदुयु चेतसः
Those who know me as the Adhidaiva and Adhiyadnya (the Brahma and the deity of all the
sacrifices respectively) and possessed of a steadfast mind know me at the hour of their death; They
really know me. (30)
(180) There are some who know by experience that I am also in the manifest creation and thus taking
support of this understanding of my being in the created world (Sadhibhoota) they reach my nature
which is higher and which is the support of all gods (Adhidaiva).
(181) Then they, by the power of their full knowledge know me as the deity of all sacrifices which is
absolute Brahman, and seeing it by their intellectual eye, do not be unhappy even at the death of
their body.
(182) Otherwise ordinarily when the thread of life is about to be broken, the beings become so
agitated that any other person who is near them also feels that the time of total annihilation has
come, is it not so?
(183) But whatever that may be, those who become united with me in the real sense do not forget me
even at the critical hour of their death.
(184) You should know that generally those who have attained such completeness are the yogis with
their minds truly merged into me.
(185) In this way, the Lord Shrikrishna was as if pouring from the ‘bottle’ of words, the ‘nectar’ of
speech but the cup of the palms of Arjuna was not exactly below the stream; because he was
