thinking of what was told earlier.
(186) There the fruits of the tree that was Krishna, which consisted of the description of Brahman,
which were full of the juice of various meanings and were fragrant with the mood of affection.
(187) Suddenly fell in the hollow bag of Arjuna’s ears by the delicate force of the wind of ‘grace’.
(188) Those fruits were as if made of the final doctrines of philosophy, or as if dipped in the ocean
of bliss of Brahman, and then, smeared with the supreme joy.
(189) By the attractiveness of those words, the eyes of Arjuna remained open and started to gulp
down the nectar of ‘wonder’.
(190) Having enjoyed that extra-ordinary happiness, Arjuna disregarded even the heavenly pleasures
and his inner being, viz. Atman was having a tingling sensation out of joy.
(191) When Arjuna experienced overflowing happiness by merely having a glimpse of exterior
beauty, he had tremendous yearning to taste the sweetness of the fruits that were Krishna’s words.
(192) He grasped those fruits in the hands of ‘logical thinking’ and hastily started to push them in the
mouth of 'experience'- the actual realization.
(193) But these teachings were not relished by the tongue of ‘dry thought’, nor could be broken under
the teeth of 'purpose.' Then that husband of Subhadra gave up his effort to touch them by his
mouth.
(194) Then Arjuna, being astonished, started to exclaim in his mind - “O! These are only reflections
of the stars in the water! How was I deceived by the decorative show of only the letters and
thought them to be fruits!
(195) “Are these really letters? I doubt. These are only the folds of the sky! How can my intellect
touch them or realise them, however deep it may delve?
(196) But unless I fathom deeper, I cannot understand their meaning.’’ Thinking like this, Arjuna
again turned towards Shri Krishna, the leader of Yadavas.
(197) Then that great warrior requested, “O Lord, all these seven words which are together are so
new that nobody has tasted them up to now!
(198) Otherwise, if we concentrate our attention on listening only is it possible to understand clearly
any great doctrines?
(199) But this is quite different. Your talk is not ordinary. I saw the whole group of these words and
even the wonder itself began to wonder.
