(200) Before the rays of your talk had touched my mind, I was astonished and my attention was
diverted.
(201) Now I have tremendous interest in learning the meaning of the words, but I am so eager that I
have no time to express it. Therefore, O Lord, please explain it completely, without delay.”
(202) Saint Dnyaneshwar says - “In this way having referred to earlier experience, and keeping in
view, future desire for knowledge, Arjuna has put his ‘eagerness’ in front and asked the question
tactfully.
(203) He has not transgressed the limits of decorum, but he extended both of his hands as if to
embrace Shrikrishna.
(204) Dear listeners, when one has to ask questions to one’s Guru, one has to take this care. Arjuna,
the ambidextrous warrior knew this very-well.
(205) Now Sanjaya will tell with great love about the question of Arjuna and the reply of
Shrikrishna.
(206) The listeners may please pay attention to it. I am telling this in straight Marathi language so
that even before hearing the words, you will visualise the teaching by using your eyes.
(207) Before the tongues of your ‘intellect’ will taste the juice of ‘meaning’ in the core of the
‘letters’ uttered by me, your senses will be very much refreshed by the outward appearance.
(208) For example, the buds of Malati flowers have a fragrance which pleases our nose, but are not
our eyes also pleased to see the delicate shape of the buds of those flowers?
(209) Similarly, by the beauty of Marathi language, the senses are enriched and then they can go to
the town of the ‘problem’ correctly.”
(210) Dnyandeva, the disciple of Nivrutti says - ‘‘Therefore listen carefully, because I am going to
explain that subject where words come to a stop.’’
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे ानिव ानयोगो नाम स मोऽ यायः
Thus, in the Upanishads sung by God, in the science of the knowledge of Brahman, in the scripture
of yoga, and in the dialogue between Shri Krishna and Arjuna, the seventh chapter namely the "yoga
of self-knowledge and objective knowledge" is completed. (7)
■■
