(23) If one looks inside every universe, one sees that the whole sphere is filled with original seeds
of the ‘state of Brahman’ only. However the souls which come and go in the middle cannot at all
be counted.
(24) Then the various parts in the various universes repeat the original wish - “I will become many”
again and again and thus this vast creation further expands.
(25) However in every such creation, only one without the second, absolute Brahman is pervading
and permeating. The appearances or the variety of forms with unequal qualities is only an illusory
flood upon it.
(26) It cannot be known how the differences and inequalities have come into existence. If we say that
the whole universe, both animate and inanimate is brought into being just for entertainment, we
see innumerable species of all the beings, lakhs and lakhs of them.
(27) Even if we try, we cannot put any limit on the number and varieties of the sprouts of Jeevas, but
if we investigate deeply to find its root, we come to know that all this creation has come about
from the abstract Brahman, which we have called, “Void” earlier.
(28) The doer who acts is, first of all, not found, and we do not find any cause for this creation, but
the resultant formation of the worlds goes on increasing very fast.
(29) In this way, the stamp of form which is knowable by our senses, falls on the abstract Brahman
without any active agent. This is called Karma.
अिधभूतं रो भावः पु ष ािधदैवतम्|
अिधय ोऽहमेवात देहे देहभृतां वर
All perishable objects are Adhibhoota. The Purusha (Brahma) is Adhidaiva and I myself
dwelling in the body am Adhiyajna, O the greatest of all souls. (4)
(30) Now, what is Adhibhoota will be told in short. That which becomes manifest and disappears
like a cloud is Adhibhoota.
(31) Actually, it is only an appearance and is perishable. It is composed of mixture of five elements.
(32) That actually appears because it takes the support of five elements, becomes a separate entity
having name and form but comes to an end as soon as the adherence of the elements is no more.
(33) So this is Adhibhoota. Now Adhidaiva means the nucleus or Purusha who enjoys, or
experiences whatever is created by the Prakriti (Maya).
(34) This Purusha is the witness of intellect or spirit. He is the chief authority in the field of senses
