and when the body comes to an end, it is in this Purusha who is the resting place of, as if all
birds, i.e. thoughts and hopes etc.
(35) Really, this Purusha is Paramatman in its original state, but it is somehow separated from that
because it is having the sleep called pride and experiences the happiness and sorrow in the
dream-like activity of Maya.
(36) So Adhidaiva is generally called Jeeva which is the deity of the amalgamation of the five
elements in the body.
(37) And O the son of Pandu, I amAdhiyajnya, who wipes away the identification of Atman with the
body in this field which is the body itself.
(38) Really, I am also Adhidaiva and Adhibhoota, but when pure gold is mixed with a lesser metal,
does it not lose its purity and become degraded?
(39) The pure gold does not change its quality or become dirty, nor does it become a part of the
lesser metal; but so long as it is together with that metal, it is rightly called to be of lower calibre.
(40) Similarly, so long as this Adhibhuta and others are covered by the screen of Prakriti, they have
to be considered separate from the absolute Brahman.
(41) But when the screen of the ignorance is removed, when the knot of seeing the duality is solved,
then all the appearance of Adhibhoota and others is dissolved and it becomes total, one unit, as
Parabrahman. How can there be separation?
(42) If a crystal is kept on a hair, that crystal appears to be divided in parts.
(43) But if the hair is taken out, where does that division disappear? Is it joined together by some
adhesive?
(44) That is not the case. The crystal is one only. It is unbroken, but by the proximity of that hair, it
was appearing to be bifurcated and, therefore, it remains as it is when the hair is removed.
(45) Now when the pride of Adhibhoota is removed, its unity with the absolute Brahman is already
there and this unity is and takes place at a certain state, which is called Adhiyajna.
(46) O Arjuna, having this meaning in our mind, we told you earlier that all sacrifices are created
from Karma.
(47) I have revealed to you this treasure of the joy of Brahman, which is devoid of any desire, and is
the place of rest to all souls.
(48) First the fuel of desirelessness should be used to kindle the fire of senses and then the articles
