of sense objects should be offered in the flames of that fire.
(49) Then in the Pandal of this body, the ground of Vajrasana should be swept clean and the table
called ‘Vedi’ should be prepared of Moolabandha posture.
(50) Then with all these preparations, many morsels (balls of boiled rice) of the “objects of senses”
should be put in the pit of the control of sense organs.
(51) Afterwards the unification of mind and vital breath should be the begining of the ceremony of
this ‘Sacrifice’ and the fire of pure knowledge should be satisfied.
(52) Then, when everything is surrendered in the fire of knowledge, that knowledge becomes the
object of knowing and then everywhere only the latter remains,
(53) which is called the Adhiyajna (Saint Dnyaneshwar says - “As soon as the omniscient Krishna
spoke this, the clever Arjuna grasped it.”)
(54) Knowing this, Shrikrishna said, “O Partha, are you listening properly?’’ At this Arjuna was
very happy.
(55) Sirs, seeing the child satisfied, the mother is also satisfied, or seeing that the disciple is
satisfied, the teacher is also happy. This happiness can only be experienced by the mother or the
teacher. Others cannot really imagine it.
(56) In the same manner, looking at Arjuna’s satisfaction, the Lord was so over-whelmed by ecstasy
that it could not be controlled; but somehow becoming quiet again,
(57) He started to speak in such a sweet tone that it resembled the fragrance sublimated to its finest
degree or the stream of nectar made comfortably cool.
(58) He said, “My dear, you are really the king of all listeners! O Dhananjaya, once this Maya
begins to burn, it so happens that the knowledge which burns it, is itself burnt.
अ तकाले च मामेव मर मु वा कलेवरम्|
यः पयाित स म ावं याित ना यत संशयः
He who departs from the body, thinking of me alone even at the time of death, attains my state;
there is no doubt about it. (5)
(59) Those who know that from the begining to the end, it is I, Adhiyajna all the time existing, about
which I have earlier told you,
(60) Live in this body, considering it just like a sack, always in the state of absolute Brahman, just
like a house which is having space inside as well as outside of it.
