(61) When they enter into the inner room of firm determination, within the middle hall of
experiencing of ‘Brahman’, they do not remember anything outside except the Brahman.
(62) When this unity is total inside and outside and they live on, becoming united with me, the outer
scales of the five elements automatically fall off.
(63) Now even when their body is active, they do not care for it, then why will they care if the body
is dead? Therefore even if their body falls, there is absolutely no disturbance in their inner state
of realization of Brahman.
(64) That realization is as if an icon of unity, which is fixed in the frame of eternity is so clean, being
washed in the ocean of ‘homogeneous nature of Brahman’ that there is not a speck of dirt on their
consciousness.
(65) My dear, suppose an earthen pot is sunk in water, and if it breaks, does the water also break?
(66) Suppose a serpent discards its skin, or feeling warm, a man takes off his clothes, does the body
suffer in anyway or are any limbs broken?
(67) Similarly, this material world like physical body etc. which has name and form seems to have
perished but the real absolute thing which is Brahman is as it is, irrespective of body, etc. Now,
will the intellect which has completely merged into Brahman ever get separated?
(68) Thus such people, who, even at the time of death know me and definitely are united with me;
become myself only.
यं यं वािप मर भावं यज य ते कलेवरम्|
तं तमेवैित कौ तेय सदा त ावभािवतः
O Son of Kunti, whatever entity one is thinking about, when one leaves the body at the time of
death, to that and that alone one reaches after death, because one is continuously absorbed in the
thought of that entity. (6)
(69) Generally, it is a usual thing that when death strikes, the soul (Jeeva) becomes that which his
mind remembers.
(70) This is like a man, who is running fast out of fear, suddenly falls in a deep well with both of his
feet in front.
(71) There is nobody to save him from the fall. He has to fall down suddenly.
(72) Similarly when the moment of death comes, the Jeeva cannot by any means avoid to be
