(83) When the consciousness which takes a man to various states and conditions, becomes deeply
merged into Atman, then who will remember whether the body is there or not?
(84) My Dear, when water in the speedy river goes to meet ocean, does it come back to see what is
happening in those regions?
(85) It never comes back. It simply merges into the ocean. Similarly the consciousness becomes the
spirit only, which is of the nature of supreme joy and where the birth and death cycle ends.
किवं पुराणमनुशािसतारमणोरणीयांसमनु मरे ः|
सव य धातारमिच य पमािद यवण तमसः पर तात्
पयाणकाले मनसाऽचलेन भ या यु ो योगबलेन चैव|
भुवोम ये पाणमावे य स यक
् स तं परं पु षमुपैित िद यम्
He who cotemplates on the seer of divine vision, ageless Being, the ruler of all, subtler than the
atom, the one who upholds the universe, whose form is beyond the human-concept, who is brilliant
like the Sun and far beyond the darkness of ignorance. (9)
Having firmly held the Pranas in the space between the two eyebrows even at the time of death,
by the power of yoga, meditating on god with steady mind full of devotion, he reaches that supreme,
glorious, divine Purusha. (10)
(86) That which has no form, no birth and death and that which itself being all, sees all;
(87) That which is more ancient than the sky, smaller than the atom and by the nearness of which the
universe functions.
(88) That which gives birth to all these beings, that by which this universe lives, and where the law
of causation cannot operate, and that which is beyond imagination.
(89) That which is invisible to the eyes even in day-light; and just as a white ant cannot enter fire,
darkness cannot enter light.
(90) That which is a heap of Suns which are properly cleansed like cleansed rice grains and which
is always arisen for men of knowledge and which never sets,
(91) That faultless and complete total Brahman, he remembers at the time of death in his peaceful
mind,
(92) And taking the lotus-posture, sitting with his face towards north and dwelling upon the eternal
happiness of the yoga of action in his soul.
