(93) In order to meet the reality of Atman quickly; with the tremendous eagerness for realization of
Brahman by the concentrated power of mind,
(94) The man achieves the yoga and through the Sushumna starts to go up to the Brahma-Randhra
from the first wheel of fire through the middle path.
(95) And when the Prana, the vital air, enters into the greater space in cranium, the Mahadakasha, he
feels that the body and mind is just an ordinary bundle of things,
(96) But he who becomes steady with his mind peaceful, his heart full of devotional feeling and his
consciousness well-prepared by the power of yoga practice,
(97) Dissolves both the innert and the moving material and remains pulsating in the space between
the two eyebrows, just as the sound of a bell fades within the bell itself.
(98) Or a lamp kept under a pot is extinguished without our knowing it; he leaves the body in
similarly peaceful condition.
(99) He is pure absolute Brahman or the supreme person and becomes my self-evident, own abode.
यद रं वेदिवदो वदि त िवशि त य तयो वीतरागाः|
यिद छ तो ब चय चरि त त े पदं संगहेण पव ये
I shall tell you briefly about that supreme goal which the knowers of the Veda call 'Akshara‘-
imperishable, which is entered into by the recluses who have conquered their passion and are striving
in that pursuit, and aspiring for which people observe the vow of bachelor-hood. (11)
(100) That which is called Akshara by men of wisdom, who possess the highest knowledge and are
the very mines of that supreme wisdom.
(101) That which does not get swept by great wind is the sky, but if it is not sky and it is only a
cloud, how can it survive and remain steady in that wind?
(102) Similarly, that which a man of knowledge understands, is measured by consciousness. But the
men of knowledge say that the Akshara or the imperishable is of such a nature that it cannot be
known.
(103) Therefore, those who understand Vedas call that thing as the ‘imperishable’ and beyond the
Prakriti and of the nature of ‘‘Existence, Movement and Bliss.’’
(104) These people have thrown away and gone beyond the poison in the sense-objects and are
sitting disinterestedly in the shadow of the physical body.
