(105) Even such desireless men are eager to attain that and the persons who have no wish about
anything, still have a wish to achieve it.
(106) Being ambitious to realize it, some persons disregard the difficulties in the observance of
celibacy and make their organs powerless.
(107) That is the immeasurable, unimaginable, extra-ordinary rare principle like an ocean, in the
shallow water near the shore of which, Vedas are taking small dips.
(108) That is the state where these yogis reach who remember me at the time of death. Now Arjuna, I
will tell you about that state once again.
(109) At this point, Arjuna said, “Sir, I was thinking of making such a request only, but since you
have obliged me by saying that you are going to tell me, please, my Lord, do tell me immediately
-
(110) But what you are going to speak should be very simple!” Whereupon Shrikrishna, the light of
the three worlds, said, “My dear, do I not know you? I am going to tell you briefly only, - to
which, now listen.
(111) But do one thing. Control your mind, so that it will not go out mischievously and will return
and merge itself deeply in the heart. That is all.
सव ारािण संय य मनो िद िन य च|
मू याधाया मनः पाणमाि थतो योगधारणाम्
Having closed all the doors of the sense organs and firmly holding the mind in the heart and then
fixing the life breath in the head and thus remaining stead-fast in yogic concentration. (12)
(112) & (113) But this will only be possible when the seeker controls the doors of the senses and
locks them firmly, then the mind is easily confined and is resting quietly in the heart, just as a man
whose feet and arms are fractured, does not go out of his home.
(114) When the mind is thus still, one should concentrate it on the vital breath and meditate on
“AUM” and lead that vital breath up to the door of Brahman between the eye-brows.
(115) Then one should hold that breath subtly balanced in such a way that it may or may not merge
into the cosmic space in the intra-cranial vacuum, denoted by the subtle point.
ओिम या रं ब याहर मामनु मरन्|
यः पयाित यज देहं स याित परमां गितम्
He who leaves the body and departs, uttering the one-lettered Brahman - Om - and remembering
