(125) and while enjoying my reality like this, they forget the feeling of hunger and thirst, what of
other poor senses like eyes, etc.?
(126) Those who are thus constantly united with me, attached to me in their mind and worship me by
being dissolved into me,
(127) are such devotees that, if I only meet them at the time of their death, what value will be there to
the constant worship they have done throughout the life?
(128) My Dear, if some person is suffering and he calls me earnestly, - “O My Lord Narayana.
Please hasten and save me!”, will I not run, out of compassion because of his plight and save
him?
(129) And if I will allow my devoted worshippers to be neglected even at the time of death, who
will have any enthusiasm to be a devotee? Therefore I say that you should not have such a doubt
even for a moment.
(130) My dear, I cannot even tolerate the idea that, in order that I should run to help them, it is
necessary for them to remember me and call me!
(131) As the great obligation of their devotion is on me, I am very alert to go and serve them, at the
time of their death, in an attempt to repay their debt on me;
(132) I keep such tender-hearted, delicate devotees in the solid protective cage of self-knowledge
lest they should be subjected to physical impairment.
(133) And I keep on them constant shed of self-remembrance which is very cool and comfortable, so
that I make myself sure that their intellect is steady and undisturbed.
(134) Therefore, these devotees are not affected by the difficulties at the time of death because I
bring them near me very easily.
(135) I remove the outer shell of their physical body, sweep the dust of false egoism and keep the
pure devotional emotion very unblemished and absorb them into my real nature.
(136) Further, as my devotees are also not very much concerned about their bodies, they do not feel
sorry while leaving them.
(137) Further, they do not have a notion that I should come near them when their physical body falls
and lead them to the Self, because they are already united with me, while they are living in their
bodies.
(138) Actually, their bodily life is a reflection in the water of physical body. The moon-light
reflected in water is restored to the moon herself if the water is dried-up. Similarly when the
