रा यागमेऽवशः पाथ पभव यहरागमे
All embodied beings emanate from the unmanifest at the coming of the cosmic day, and at the
cosmic nightfall they merge into the same unmanifest (casual body of Brahma). (18)
Arjuna, this multitude of beings being born again and again is dissolved under inner force of its
own nature at the coming of the cosmic night, and rises into visible existence at the commencement of
the cosmic day. (19)
(160) When in that region of God Brahma, the day dawns, the innumerable beings in the universe of
name and form come into existence out of the unmanifest state.
(161) When the 4 periods of 3 hours each are over, the whole ocean of forms gets dried up and when
again the day begins in that region, it start to be filled up.
(162) For example, the clouds disappear from the sky during the season which follows the rainy
season, but reappear again at the end of the summer.
(163) Similarly at the begining of the day of Brahma, the whole universe of beings in the five great
elements is born and remains so, upto the end of the period of one thousand great ages.
(164) When the night comes there, the embodied beings and the whole universe remain merged into
the unmanifest, coming into existence again after the end of the said long period.
(165) In short, it is to be known that during one day and night of Brahma, all these beings come into
existence and are merged in the unmanifest.
(166) Just imagine the long duration of the universe and its vastness, being confined like a seed in
the day-and-night of the Brahma but know that even the life of that region of Brahma is in its
course, subject to birth and death.
(167) Actually, O wielder of the bow, the whole triple universe is just a town in the cosmos and the
expanse within that triple universe is born when the day commences.
(168) Then, as the night comes, it becomes unmanifest and remains dormant in its own place.
(169) Here this is similar to a tree becoming a seed and clouds becoming the sky.
पर त मा ु भावोऽ योऽ य ोऽ य ा सनातनः|
यः स सवषु भूतेषु न य सु न िवन यित
Far beyond even this unmanifest, there is yet another unmanifest higher existence, the Supreme
Divine person, who does not perish even though all the beings perish. (20)
