(170) In that state of same-ness and equality, there is no less or more of any kind and the term
“Beings” is not applicable there, just as when milk becomes curd, the name and the form of milk
is no more.
(171) Similarly the nature of separateness of all beings is dissolved but it is in its original state of
the seed.
(172) Then it is unmanifest and when it is visible and has name and form, it is called manifest but
these two names are used for convenience only; actually that is only one thing and not two.
(173) It is like silver which is called a chip when it is melted and kept as a solid block but when
ornaments are made out of it, that shape of the chip disappears.
(174) But both the forms appear on one single metal as silver or gold. Similarly on one original
absolute Reality both the variations of manifest and unmanifest appear.
(175) But that Brahman is neither manifest nor unmanifest, neither perishable nor eternal, but beyond
these two, and self-evident.
(176) This becomes universe but is not destroyed by the destruction of the universe. For example,
even if letters written on a board are rubbed off, the meaning is not wiped.
(177) Or waves are created and subside but water is permanent in its original state. Similarly this
Brahman remains imperishable even if the elements are dissolved.
(178) Or just as in the ornaments being melted, there is gold which is not melted, similarly this
Brahman is not destroyed even though the embodied form of souls (Jeevas) disappears.
अ य ोऽ र इ यु तमाहः परमां गितम्|
यं पा य न िनवत ते त ाम परमं मम
पु षः स परः पाथ भ या ल य वन यया|
य या तः थािन भूतािन येन सविमदं ततम्
The same unmanifest which has been called as the imperishable is also called the supreme goal;
that again is my supreme abode, attaining which the yogis do not return (to this mortal world). (21)
O Partha, that eternal Purusha in whom all beings reside and by whom all this is pervaded, is
attainable only through undivided devotion. (22)
(179) We may as a fun call it as unmanifest, but that is not the apt description for it is not within the
scope of mind and intellect.
