(180) And that which does not lose its abstract nature even though it wields a form and which
remains eternal even if the form disappears,
(181) and for which reason, it is called Akshara by which word its imperishable nature is indicated;
and because there is no further achievement beyond it, it is called supreme goal.
(182) But that is seemingly asleep in the town of this body because it does not act nor causes
anything to be done.
(183) But O Great warrior, not a single function of the organs is stopped and all the ten senses are
continuously working (Their paths are always being used).
(184) The market of sense-objects is opened on the city-square of mind and the profit and loss of that
market is accrued to the Jeeva residing in it.
(185) But the activities of the country are not stopped though the king is asleep; and the people are
going about their business, according to their own liking.
(186) Similarly the function of intellect ‘of knowing’, the function of mind ‘of receiving and giving’,
the functions of senses and the breathing are going on.
(187) Such functions of the body go on properly without his direction, like people going on
performing various actions, though the Sun does not direct them physically.
(188) Dear Arjuna, similarly he is given the name of Purusha, because he apparently sleeps in the
body.
(189) And as he is like a man, one with his wife, who is faithful to him, he is called Purusha.
(190) And that Brahman which is so vast that Vedas whose grasp is tremendous cannot see even the
courtyard of it, let alone their entering into its home - it is so great that it covers even the sky.
(191) That which is called the beyond of the beyond by yogis, knowing it to be so great and which
itself comes searching the house of one-pointed loyal devotee.
(192) These devotees are not paying any attention by their body, speech and mind to any other thing
except this and therefore this is the ever fertile field of these devotees.
(193) And O Pandava, this is the resting place of the faithful devotee, whose natural understanding is
that all the three worlds are Brahman only.
(194) This is the greatness of the quality of humility, this is the knowledge of the abstract, and it is
the majesty of happiness to the persons who have no expectation.
