(195) This is a plate of rich food for those who are already satisfied, this protects like a mother
those for whom there is no anchor and have no worry about family-life and to reach this, devotion
is the straight-forward path.
(196) O Dhananjaya, why should I enumerate everything by protracted narration? This is the place
where Jeeva reaches and becomes itself.
(197) Just as warm water itself becomes cool by the cool breeze, and just as darkness itself becomes
light when the sun comes forth,
(198) Similarly, O Pandava, when the worldly life reaches that state, it itself becomes free.
(199) Or just as a wooden-piece thrown in fire, burns and then it cannot be recognised as wood even
if we try to find out.
(200) Or, O the Son of Pandu, just as when sugar is taken out of sugarcane, it cannot be made
sugarcane again, however cleverly one may try.
(201) When iron is turned into gold by the magic stone (Parees), one may try hard but it cannot be
turned into iron again.
(202) Therefore, once the yogi reaches this Brahman, he does not return to this world, just as milk
which is transformed into ghee cannot become milk again.
(203) So, that is my highest abode. I have revealed you this knowledge which is the most secret truth
in my heart.
यत काले वनावृि मावृि ं चैव योिगनः|
पयाता याि त तं कालं व यािम भरतषभ
O! The great person of the family of Bharatas, I shall now tell you the time of departure when
yogis who leave their body do not return and also the time of departing when those who leave their
body, do return here. (23)
(204) Yogis who are united with me in yet another way are easy to understand.
(205) Sometimes it happens that suddenly death strikes at the man at a wrong time and it becomes
necessary to come back here again.
(206) Therefore, if they leave the body during the most auspicious period, they immediately become
Brahman, but if they die at wrong time, they come back to the worldly life and get involved.
(207) Here the total freedom or coming back into this world and be tied to the chain of birth and
