death, - both are dependant on the time of bodily death. I will, therefore, tell you the significance
of time of death while I am speaking on this subject.
(208) O! The Great Warrior, please listen. When the time of death comes and the man is on the
threshold of passing away, the five elements depart to their respective natural condition.
(209) When this time comes, the intellect is not confused, the memory is not blinded and the mind is
also not dead.
(210) Because the armour of the experience of realisation of Brahman protects the life side of the
body and all these remain more sensitive and alive.
(211) In order that the group of inner organs should be fresh and active up to the time of actual
passing away of the life force, it is necessary that there should be warmth (fire) in the body.
(212) Just see! If the lamp loses its power of giving light and is no more a lamp because of a breeze
or sprinkling of water, how can our eyes see eventhough the vision is very much intact?
(213) Similarly at the time of death, there is great disturbance in the vitality flow and the body is
pervaded by cough, and the warmth in the body is gone.
(214) At that time, the vital wind is not steady. What can intellect do even if it is there? Therefore
there is no life in the body in the absence of heat.
(215) If the heat in the body is no more, the body is nothing but a lump of mud. In such a condition,
the life is wasted by the darkness.
(216) In that condition, while it is wished that memory should be kept fresh and one should be united
with Atman by leaving the body,
(217) Suddenly the vitality of life is destroyed in the body which is a lump of mud and awareness of
the past and the future is totally gone.
(218) Therefore, just as a lamp in our hand should be extinguished before the treasure kept carefully
is seen, the study of yoga earlier done is forgotten at the time of death.
(219) In short, the heat in the body is the main support of knowledge and the power of the fire in the
body is necessary at the time of death.
अि न य ितरहः शु लः ष मासा उ रायणम्|
तत पयाता ग छि त ब ब िवदो जनाः
Of the paths, the one is that in which the luminent fire god and the deities presiding over day light
are active. There is bright fortnight of the moon and the six months of the northward course of the sun
