respectively. Yogis who have realised Brahman proceed along this path guided by the above gods
and finally reach Brahman. (24)
(220) The time is such when there is light of the flame of the fire in the body, outwardly there is the
bright fortnight of the moon, it is day-light and any of the six months of the northward travel of the
sun.
(221) Those who leave the body in such an auspicious period reach the absolute Brahman, being the
knowers of Brahman.
(222) O the wielder of the bow, know that this time is very important and it is the straight path of
reaching Brahman.
(223) Here the first necessity is presence of warmth in the body and the second is the flame, the third
is the time of the day and the fourth is the bright fort-night of the moon.
(224) Beyond these, the highest step of this staircase is the period of six months of the northward
travel of the sun. By climbing these fives steps, the yogis reach the home of final liberation of
unity.
(225) Therefore this period should be considered as best. This is called “Archiradi” path. (i.e. the
path of light) Now I shall tell you the improper time for leaving the body. Please listen.
धूमो राित तथा क
ृ णः ष मासा दि णायनम्|
तत चा दमसं योितय गी पा य िनवतते
The other path is that when gods presiding over grey regions are active, there is night, there is
dark fortnight of the moon and the six months of the southward course of the sun. The yogi taking to
this path after death during this period is led by the above gods and attaining the region of the moon
(the fruits of his good deeds) returns to this world. (25)
(226) At the time of death in that period, there is disturbance of increased cough and gases and the
mind is full of darkness.
(227) All the organs become as stiff as wood, memory is muddled, the mind becomes insane and the
breath is thwarted.
(228) The fire in the body loses its brightness and there is smoky effect in the consciousness by
which the life in the body remains entangled.
(229) When many dark clouds cover the moon, there is neither light nor darkness but grey light all
around.
