(230) Similarly the soul comes to the border-line of life where he is neither living nor dead and
there is a kind of stillness when life is awaiting death.
(231) When in this way, the mind, the intellect and organs are confused being covered by the stroke
of uncertainty, all the efforts made during a life time are wasted.
(232) When whatever in one’s hand is lost, where is the question of gaining any more benefit? In
short such is the miserable condition at the time of death.
(233) This is the condition within the body. The outer conditions are also not helpful. There is dark
fortnight of the moon, it is night time, and the period is of six months when the sun travels
southward.
(234) When all such signs of returning of the soul to this world are existing together at the time of
death of a man, how can he hear even the story of achieving the state of absolute Brahman?
(235) If a man dies during such period, he goes up to the lunar region, if he is a yogi; and after some
time, he comes back to this worldly life.
(236) O Pandava, this is the time which we have called wrong time of death, and this is the Dhoom-
marga or the smoky path which leads to the town of the cycle of birth and death.
(237) The other path which is called ‘Archiradi’ is the independent, separate path, in which there is
peace and happiness and which leads to the final freedom.
शु लक
ृ णे गती ेते जगतः शा ते मते|
एकया या यनावृि म यथा वतते पुनः
These two paths, the bright and the dark are considered to be eternal in this world. Proceeding by
one of them, a man reaches the supreme state from which there is no return while by the other a man
returns to the mortal world. (26)
(238) In this way these two paths are existing from the time unknown, one of which is straight and
the other is curved. O great warrior, I have purposely explained both to you,
(239) So that, you may consider the good way and the bad way, decide what is real and what is not,
understand the pros and cons and attain your own welfare.
(240) Please consider. If a good boat is easily available, will anybody jump into a flood? Or when
one knows a thoroughfare which is very safe should he enter a forest?
(241) Similarly, will anyone who knows the nectar and the poison, ever throw away the nectar?
Similarly when there is a straight path in front of a man, he does not go by a bylane.
