(242) So, we should examine properly what is real and what is false, so that, at the critical juncture,
we will not be in the wrong.
(243) Otherwise there will be disaster at the time of death and there will be confusion about both the
paths and the life time study of yoga will go waste.
(244) If at the time of death, the path known as Archiradi is missed and the soul turns to the smoky
path, he will be tied to the wheel of birth and death and will have to keep roaming.
(245) Having considered the great suffering which is in the path of the latter kind, I have had to
explain both the paths of yoga, in order to advise you, how to avoid all the trouble.
(246) By one of the two paths, the Jeeva attains the absolute Brahman while by the other path, he is
caught in the cycle of birth and death, but it depends on destiny also as to the path by which the
soul will go beyond bodily death.
नैते सृती पाथ जानन् योगी मु ित क न|
त मा सवषु कालेषु योगयु ो भवाजुन
Knowing thus the secret of these two paths, O Partha, no yogi gets deluded. Therefore, Arjuna,
you should be firm in this yoga at all times. (27)
(247) There is a doubt in this case. If all things are not possible at the time of death according to our
desire and we get only that which is in our lot, at random, then how will it be possible to go by a
particular path and realize the Brahman?
(248) Therefore, while living only, we should realize that we are Brahman, irrespective of whether
there is a body or not; because the base on which the serpent appears, is the rope only which is
the cause of that illusion.
(249) Is the water aware at any time that either it is water or a wave? It only remains as water
whether there are waves or not.
(250) It does not come into existence by the rising of a wave and is not destroyed by the ending of
the wave. Similarly those who are beyond body and united with Brahman even when residing in a
body, should be called Videhi (Devoid of body)
(251) Now when there is no question of having a body or not, in the case of such yogis, is it
important that they die at a certain time?
(252) What path should they select and why? Who is to go from where, and to what place?
(253) Further let us take an example. Supposing an earthen pot is broken. Now, will the space within
