the pot reach the cosmic space only if it selects the proper path or it will miss?
(254) My Dear, with the breaking of the pot, only the shape is destroyed, but the space which was
before the formation of the shape remains as it was, even after the pot is broken.
(255) So, for the yogis, who are united with Brahman, there is no question about the right path or the
wrong path.
(256) Therefore, O son of Pandu, you should always be well-established in yoga, so that you will
naturally remain in the state of Brahman.
(257) Then let the bondage of body be there or not, there will be no disturbance at all in your free
unbound state of Brahman.
(258) That Reality, the Brahman, does not take birth at the begining of a Kalpa nor gets destroyed at
the end of the Kalpa, and even when the universe is manifest, it is not deluded by the worldly life
or the heavenly life.
(259) This understanding is possible only to a yogi and useful because he has gone beyond the
pleasures of senses and attained Reality.
(260) My Dear Pandava, the great empires of gods like Indra about the glory of which there is great
awe everywhere are, for such a yogi, only triffling things to be thrown away.
वेदेषु य ेषु तपःसु चैव दानेषु य पु यफलं पिद म्|
अ येित त सविमदं िविद वा योगी परं थानमुपैित चा म्
The yogi realizing this profound truth transcends all the rewards ascribed in the scriptures to the
study of the Vedas and to the performance of sacrifices, penances and charities and attains the
beginingless supreme state. (28)
(261) Even if a man has completed the learning of Vedas or got tremendous merit as a result of it or
having undertaken penance or having given lots of things in charity and earned spiritual merit,
(262) Even then the whole group of merits cannot be equal to the pure absolute Brahman even though
those merits are fully blossomed.
(263) To describe this in other words, let us put the happiness in the heaven in the balance with the
bliss of Brahman. It will not be lighter in weight than the latter and Vedas and rituals etc. are the
means to gain it.
(264) That happiness in the heaven is such that it is not born nor does it end. It becomes vast as per
the wish of the enjoyer and it is, by its increasing virtues, related to the bliss in Brahman or even
