shall be free from the evil. (1)
(34) O Arjuna, now you are going to be told the seed-like secret of the secrets which is deep in my
consciousness.
(35) You may ask, “What is such an important occasion that I should open the secret chamber of my
heart and tell you the secret?”
(36) So, please listen. You are very intelligent. You are the second name of devotion and you do not
know how to disregard anything which I tell you.
(37) Therefore, let the secret of my heart be opened, and let even that which should not be told, be
told; but I am very eager to see that what is in my heart goes into your heart.
(38) You see, there is milk in the breast but the breast has no taste for it. Therefore it is felt that if
there is a loyal person atleast his desire of enjoying the sweet milk should be satisfied.
(39) If seeds are taken out of the store and sown in a well-cultivated agricultural land, can we say
that they are wasted?
40) Therefore, one should freely open one’s heart to a friend who has a good mind, a clear intellect
and who is not a critic and is very loyal.
(41) And just now there is nobody other than you who has such qualities, and therefore it is not
proper to keep any secret from you.
(42) Perhaps you may ask, “Why the word 'secret' should be repeated so often? Therefore I will just
express the self-knowledge and the worldly knowledge to you without delay.
(43) When the good and bad coins are mixed-up, they are carefully separated, making separate
heaps. Similarly I am going to separate these two kinds of knowledges.
(44) Or just as by its beak as a pincer, the swan separates milk from water, so I am separating the
self-knowledge and the other worldly knowledge for you.
(45) Or the husk is blown away by the force of the wind, and only the grains fall down in a heap.
(46) Similarly when both these kinds of knowledges are wisely separated, the world is tied to the
world itself and the self-knowledge leads one to the glorious seat of liberation.
राजिव ा राजगु ं पिवतिमदमु मम्|
प य ावगमं ध य सुसुखं कतुम ययम्
This knowledge is a royal science, a royal secret, supremely holy, most excellent, directly
