enjoyable, in tune with religion, very easy to practise and eternally imperishable (2)
(47) This knowledge is the greatest science, even the dignified principal of all the teachings and is
enjoying the rulership of all the secret knowledge and is the king of all pure things.
(48) This knowledge is the maternal home of religion, it is the best of the best and when it is
attained, the birth and death cycle has no scope.
(49) Sometimes it is somewhat expressed in the words spoken by the Guru, but really speaking it is
already self-evident in the heart of everybody and can be easily realised by one who earnestly
wishes for it.
(50) This knowledge is such that when we climb the step (state) of self-bliss, it is realised there; and
suddenly the joy also merges into it.
(51) But earlier than this merger, the consciousness is replete with the highest joy at the step of self-
bliss, which is also caused by this pure knowledge which is itself the absolute Brahman.
(52) Another speciality of this knowledge is that once it is achieved, it is never lost by experiencing
nor its sweetness is diminished.
(53) Now, dear Arjuna, you may logically question as to why such a valuable knowledge was
missed by people.
(54) Those who jump into the fire just for the greed about getting a little more interest on their money
- you may ask, how will they let go this self- bliss which can be had without so much trouble?
55) Which is sacred, most interesting, and easily available, which is in tune with religion and which
affords unity with the Atman;
(56) When every kind of happiness is saturated in that bliss, how could people ever let it go without
grasping?’’ It is quite natural that you will have this doubt; but you should not have it.
अश धानाः पु षा धम या य परंतप|
अपा य मां िनवत ते मृ युसंसारव मिन
O Arjuna, the given of trouble to enemies! People having no faith in this Dharma, having failed to
reach me, return to the path of the death and rebirth. (3)
(57) Now consider this. Milk is pure and sweet and it is just behind the thin layer of the skin of the
cow’s udder, but instead of enjoying it, do not the cow-lice squeeze only the blood?
(58) The roots of lotus and the frogs are in the same water, but only the beetles enjoy the juice from
the flowers and the frogs have only the mud in their lot.
