(59) Or in the house of some unlucky person, there is buried a treasure of thousands of gold coins,
but he lives in that house, sometimes going without food and living in very poor condition.
(60) Similarly while I am Ram in his heart, the treasure of real happiness of every kind, a person in
delusion desires outward objects.
(61) It is like a man who throws away the nectar held in his mouth when he sees a mirage or in order
to get a little shell, one throws away the philosopher’s stone tied around his neck.
(62) Similarly being caught in the network of the sense of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’, these poor souls do not
reach me and keep moving from one shore to the other of birth and death respectively.
(63) Actually, I am always in front of everybody ever shining and pure, like the Sun, but the Sun is
not sometimes visible due to night or clouds!
मया ततिमदं सव जगद य मूितना|
म थािन सवभूतािन न चाहं ते ववि थतः
The whole of this universe is permeated by me, being unmanifest and all beings rest within me,
but physically, visibly I am not contained in them. (4)
(64) As regards my totality, is not the universe myself only? It is just like milk which though
becoming curds, is still essentially milk itself.
(65) Or it is the seed which becomes manifest in a larger form as a tree or it is the gold which
becomes an ornament. Similarly the world is my own expanded form.
(66) My abstract existence was solidified and was poured into the mould of the universe of name
and form and in that way I myself became, though one alone, this whole trinity of worlds.
(67) Just as the foam is visible on the surface of water, so the whole world of innumerable beings of
names and forms, right from the Mahat principle to the bodies is apparent on my basic being.
(68) If we look into the foam, water is not visible there, and various forms also, perceived in the
dream state are not seen in the walking state.
(69) Similarly these beings are reflected on my base, but I am not confined in them. I have already
told you earlier this part of philosophy.
(70) Therefore, it is not good to dwell at large on the same thing again. So it be. Only your vision
should be well-established in my real nature.
