न च म थािन भूतािन प य मे योगमै रम्|
भूतभृ न च भूत थो ममा मा भूतभावनः
These beings do not abide in me, but behold the wonderful power of my divine yoga! Though I am
the sustainer and the creater of all beings, I do not dwell within these beings. (Not limited by their
limitations).
(71) If you discard your conceptual imagination, and then consider this existence beyond the Prakriti,
you will find that it is false to say that these beings dwell in me, because I am myself everything
and there is nothing other which can dwell in me.
(72) But when at the beginning of the creation, there was grey light of doubt about the “Knowable”
quality of absolute Brahman, the clear vision of intellect was shrouded by slight darkness and,
therefore, though the absolute Brahman is without form or distortion of any kind, there appeared
the variety of beings as a thing separate from the Brahman.
(73) But when that grey light of ignorance produced by projecting thought is over, the absolute
Brahman remains alone, continuous, undistorted, in its purity, by elimination of the illusive
existence of beings; just as, in clear light, the false concept of a serpent on a garland is nullified
and the garland is clearly visible.
(74) For example, have the earthen pots or vessels come out of the earth as plants naturally growing
or are they produced out of the womb of imagination of a potter?
(75) Or are there actual mines in the sea where waves are stored? Is it not the independent action of
the wind?
(76) Similarly was there a bundle of cloth already in the heap of cotton? Is not that created only out
of the imagination of a person? Is that cloth not manufactured out of cotton?
(77) Or the gold not cease to be gold even if an ornament is made out of it. The ornament is
produced for the person who wants to use it.
(78) Please tell me, is echo existing itself or is the reflection existing within the mirror? Or are they
not the creations of our own voice and face?
(79) Similarly the creation is in the mind of the man, born out of his concept, who superimposes the
universe on my original undistorted pure existence.
(80) When that original delusion comes to an end, (which is called Maya) then as the appearance of
various beings is itself false, it also gets destroyed and the only one pure undistorted existence
remains, which is myself.
