(81) In short, if we have vertigo, we see everything around us, like hills, revolving; similarly by our
own imagination, all these beings seem to be true instead of my Reality, which is the absolute
Brahman.
(82) But when the imagination is set aside, it is not true even in a dream to say that “I am in the
beings” and “the beings are in me.”
(83) Therefore, it is just like a chattering of a man in delirium to say that “I alone sustain all the
beings”, or that “I dwell in all the beings.”
(84) Therefore, please listen, my dear! It is a false imagination of the false beings to ‘consider’ me
as the universe or that the universe is my soul.
(85) Just as the mirage which has no actual existence appears to be real because of the sun-rays, so
all the beings though not actually existing, appear to be and they also create a false appearance of
‘me’ within them.
(86) Thus, please understand that, I am the base for the appearance of all beings but at the same time,
I am alone everywhere, just as the Sun and its light are one.
(87) This is called the Yoga of my glory. Tell me, did you understand this clearly? Is there any scope
for differences in me and various beings at all?
(88) Therefore, the doctrine that all the beings are not different from me is true. Never consider me
as different from the beings.
यथाकाशि थतो िन यं वायुः सवतगो महान्|
तथा सवािण भूतािन म थानी युपधारय
Just as the air which is blowing everywhere, always remains in the sky only, likewise know that
all beings (who have originated from me ) abide in me. You should understand it by this simile. (6)
(89) My dear, the expanse of the wind (air) is equal to the expanse of sky and only if the air is
moved, it is felt as something separate; otherwise it is one with the sky.
(90) Similarly if we imagine, the beings appear to be separate; otherwise in the state of totality
where there is not a single thought, they disappear and I alone remain undistorted.
(91) So, ‘is’ and ‘is not’ are both only the product of imagination. When it is gone, the world created
by it is also gone and it appears only as soon as we imagine.
(92) But when the original “capital” of imagination is nullified, where is the base to say ‘is’ or ‘is
not’? Please understand this Yoga of glory of mine.
