(93) You should become one wave of the ocean of self-knowledge. Then you will know that you are
the whole world.
(94) The Lord Shrikrishna said, ‘Arjuna, are you now awake due to this highest knowledge? Is the
dream of duality over, once for all, because of this awakening?”
(95) Perhaps in future, if your intellect will get asleep due to ‘imagination’ and you will fall into the
dream of duality, this realisation of unity will cease to be.
(96) So, in order that even the slight sound of the foot-steps of this sleep should disappear and in
order that your wakeful state of self- knowledge should always abide, we are going to tell you
clearly the most secret knowledge.
(97) Therefore, the great courageous wielder of bow, please listen steadily to my speech. My dear,
the Maya, the Prakriti itself, creates all the beings and destroys them.
सवभूतािन कौ तेय पक
ृ ितं याि त मािमकाम्|
क प ये पुन तािन क पादौ िवसृजा यहम्
O son of Kunti, at the time of final dissolution, all beings merge into my Prakriti, and at the
beginning of creation, I send them forth again. (7)
(98) The Prakriti which is of two kinds, is already explained to you. One is of eight parts and the
other is of the Jeeva, or life principle.
(99) This subject of Prakriti is, O, Pandawa, already heard by you earlier. Therefore, what is the
purpose of repeating it?
(100) At the end of the Great Kalpa, all the beings return to a state of unity in this Prakriti.
(101) In the summer, the grass with its seeds remains dormant in the ground.
(102) Or when the thundering clouds of the rainy season disappear from the sky and the clarity of
post-rainy season comes into being.
(103) Or in the vacuum of the sky the wind quietly subsides, or the state of wave-ness is merged into
water;
(104) Or when we are awake, the dream ceases to be in the mind only, so, at the time of the final
dissolution, that which is created, merges into Prakriti.
(105) And it is said that at the beginning of the Great Kalpa, I myself create them. Therefore, listen
to the true process of all this.
