पक
ृ ितं वामव य िवसृजािम पुनः पुनः|
भूतगामिममं क
ृ नमवशं पक
ृ तेवशात्
Using my Prakriti as a medium of manifestation, I release again and again all this multitude of
beings subject to the influence of their own nature. (8)
(106) Just at the web of various threads appears as a cloth, so, I easily create the world.
(107) Then just as by the cross- threads small squares are formed and then the shape of a cloth
appears, so my Prakriti becomes the visible nature of five elements of names and forms.
(108) Just as milk becomes curd and becomes somewhat solid, similarly the nature begins to appear
on the back-drop of Prakriti.
(109) Just as with the humidity of water, a seed sprouts and becomes a plant and a tree with many
branches, similarly the nature consisting of various elements and beings which is born out of
Prakriti is created from me.
(110) My dear Arjuna, it is said that a certain king built a city and that is true. But does the king
himself gets tired in helping the actual construction of houses?
(111) Similarly when I say that I become established in the Prakriti, it is like a man coming out of
dream when he wakesup.
(112) Do the feet get tired while coming into waking condition or is it necessary to travel actually
when in dream?
(113) The summary of this explanation is that, while this nature full of elements is being created, I
am not required to do anything.
(114) Just as the citizens are under the control of the king, but everybody conducts his business
independently as he likes, similarly the only relation with Prakriti is that it is my Prakriti, but all
activities belong to her.
(115) When it is full moon, there is a big tide in the sea, but is the moon required to pull the waters?
(116) When a piece of iron is near a magnet, the piece of iron moves. It may very well move. Is the
magnet required to make any efforts because it is near?
(117) Just like this, I only accept that it is my Prakriti and then automatically the whole world of
elements begins to take form.
(118) Dear Pandava, just as the ground is the supporter of the seed while it grows, becomes a
