creeper, bears leaves, etc., so this world of elements comes into existence by the support of
Prakriti.
(119) Or it is like the fact that on the physical body all the states of childhood, youth etc. appear; Or
the rainy season is the cause of the clouds appearing in the sky.
(120) Or as sleep is the cause of dream, similarly O the greatest among men! It is Prakriti which is
responsible and capable for the world to come into being.
(121) The beings and the elements may be either innert or moving, visible or subtle; for all of them,
Prakriti is the root.
(122) Therefore, I have no concern about creating of the elements or to maintain them, etc.
(123) The moon-light seems to be spread long like a creeper on the surface of water but that
enlargement of the light is not done by the moon. Similarly though all the actions finally reach up
to me they remain far away and not related.
न च मां तािन कमािण िनब नि त धनंजय|
उदासीनवदासीनमस ं तेषु कमसु
O Dhananjaya, those actions however do not bind me, because I am unattached to such actions
and standing aloof and as if indifferent to them. (9)
(124) When a great wave of water of the sea rises speedily a bund wall of salt cannot stop it.
Similarly, when I am the end of all actions, how can they bind me?
(125) It will be like a very small cage of flying particles saying to wind, "Just stop!" Or like
darkness entering into the disc of the Sun.
(126) More than that, just as the internal firmness of a mountain is not affected by the heavy rains,
likewise the actions performed by the Prakriti do not affect me.
(127) Really, if you see, all the disturbances in the Prakriti, such as name and shape, etc., are
supported by me only, but as I am disinterested I do not myself act or cause actions to be
performed.
(128) When a lamp is lighted and kept in the house, it does not prevent or control anybody nor does
it know what is done and by whom in its light.
(129) Just as that lamp is a witness and indirect cause of the activities in the house, so I am in each
and every being, but I am not attached to the actions of those beings.
(130) O, the husband of Subhadra, how many times should this fact be repeated? You may once for
