all remember one fact.
मया य ेण पक
ृ ितः सूयते सचराचरम्|
हेतुनानेन कौ तेय जगि प रवतते
O! son of Kunti! Under my supervision, nature brings forth the whole creation, with both animate
and inanimate beings, and thus, the whole world undergoes a cycle of creation and destruction. (10)
(131) O, son of Pandu, just as the Sun is only an indirect cause for the functions of all beings in the
world, so, I also become a cause of the creation of the world, as a witness only.
(132) Because I am accepting prakriti and abiding in it, the creation of this world takes place and,
therefore, in a way I am the cause of this world.
(133) So, please see my glory of Yoga, by the help of this knowledge, - which is the fact that
‘‘Though all beings are in me, I am not in them.’’
(134) Or, seen from another point of view, the beings are not in me and I am not in the beings. This
key of real knowledge, you should never miss.
(135) This is the most secret of my nature, which I have opened up for you. Now, you should enjoy it
in your heart, by shutting off the doors of your senses.
(136) O Partha, so long as this crux of the doctrine is not realized, my real nature cannot be
understood, just as there is no grain in the heap of husk.
(137) Otherwise, a man may imagine that he has understood, but does the earth become wet by the
waters of the mirage?
(138) If we throw a net on the surface of water and there is moon in the sky, her reflection in the
water seems to be caught in the net, but if we pull the net ashore, tell me, where is the moon?
(139) Likewise people chatter off their experiences when actually they do no have the Reality, but
when the occasion of actual realization comes, their boasting proves to be false.
अवजानि त मां मूढा मानुष तनुमािशतम्|
परं भावमजान तो मम भूतमहे रम्
Fools do not know my real nature as the overlord of the entire creation and think low of me,
taking me to be an ordinary human being. (11)
(140) If you are really afraid of this worldly life of birth and death and if at all you are really
interested in knowing me, you must hold this thought carefully in your mind and heart.
