(141) Otherwise a person, whose eyesight is affected by jaundice, calls the moonlight as yellow.
Similarly for an ignorant man, my pure nature seems to be with various defects.
(142) Or a man whose taste is disturbed by fever, says milk to be bitter. Similarly though I am not
merely a human being, people consider me to be a human being only.
(143) Therefore, dear Dhananjaya, you may perhaps forget this secret fact; but do not forget it
because a cursory looking at me, without this knowledge, is useless.
(144) Actually to see me superficially is really not seeing rightly, because one will never become
deathless by the nectar taken in the dream.
(145,146) Generally people know me superficially, but it is like the swans who think that the
reflections of stars in water are jewels and are deceived. Similarly this very superficial looking
prevents the right knowledge.
(147) If we think the mirage to be Ganges and go ahead to be near it, what fruit will we get?
Similarly if we think a thorny bush to be divine wish-tree, and hold it, what benefit will we get?
(148) If thinking that it is a double threaded garland of blue jewels, we take in our hands deadly
cobra or thinking that they are gems we pick-up hailstones;
(149) Or thinking that it is treasure, if we put burning coals in our bag, or if a lion jumps into the
well, thinking that his reflection is another lion, what will be the result?
(150) Similarly, those who have convinced themselves that I take up a form and incarnate in the
world, and who thus jump headlong into the mundane life, can be said to have embraced the
reflection of moon in the water, thinking that it is moon.
(151,152 ) Such a conviction is a futile thing. It is like a person drinking soup of rice, and trying to
see the effect of nectar. Similarly people have deep trust in their mind on the outward crude
manifestation of the world of name and form and try to find in it my eternal nature. How can they
so see me in my real nature?
(153) My dear, is it possible to reach the western sea by going towards east? Or my dear Arjuna, is
it possible to get grains by beating the husk?
(154) Similarly, how can my one abstract Reality which is absolute and without any qualities, be
understood by having knowledge of this visible, perishable universe? How can one say that it is
water, by drinking only the foam?
(155) Similarly, people being deluded think that this universe is myself, the Paramatman and then try
to impose upon me the various happenings like birth, death etc. which are part of this world.
