(156) In this way they accuse me of having name when I have no name, of action when I am without
action and to have body, when I am beyond body.
(157) Though I am having no form, they think that I am having form, though I have no attributes they
think that I have them; when I am not bound by any rules of right or wrong action, they impose
upon me the quality of wisdom in right action, like rituals, etc.
(158) Though I am having no caste, they consider me to belong to a caste. When I am without
qualities, they give me qualities. When I am having no feet, they give me feet. And when I am
having no hands, they give me hands.
(159) When I am immeasurable, they think that I am having some measure. When I am everywhere,
they think that I am at a particular place. Just as a man who is asleep, sees a forest even though he
is in bed.
(160) Similarly they see ears, when I have no ears, eyes when I have no eyes, ancestral lineage when
I have none and a form when I am formless.
(161) They think that I am manifest when I am not, unhappy when I have no sorrow, satisfaction
when I am always self-satisfied.
(162) When I have no cover, they clothe me, when I am beyond ornaments, they
give me ornaments and they see some cause for me, when I an the cause of everything.
(163) I am eternally born but they celebrate my birth. When I am eternally established, they try to
establish me in an image. When I am all the time existing, they invoke me and return me!
(164) When I am always existing, changeless, eternal, they think of me as a child, a youth, or an old
person. In this way, when I am always uniform, they apply some relationship to me.
(165) When I am non-dual, alone, they call me the other. When I do not do anything, they suppose
that I am the doer . When I do not enjoy anything, they think that I am pleased or I am joyful.
(166) They praise my family, when I do not belong to any family. When I am deathless, eternal, they
lament about my death, and when I am in the heart of every being, they think that I am somebody's
enemy or somebody's friend.
(167) I am the essence of self-bliss, but they think that I have desire of many comforts and
enjoyments. I am the totality of equilibrium, existing universally everywhere, but they call me to
belong to a particular place.
(168) I am the nucleus, the Atman in every created thing, but they think that I am partial to somebody
and I kill somebody else. They spread this concept in the world.
