(169) In short whatever are the ordinary qualities of human beings, they say that I have them. Such is
their perverted knowledge.
(170) When they see a certain form in front of them, they say that it is god and when that form
becomes damaged they throw it away saying that it is not god.
(171) In this way, these people think that I am a human being, having a certain form and in this way,
this so-called knowledge covers up and hides knowledge of Reality.
मोघाशा मोघकमाणो मोघ ाना िवचेतसः|
रा सीमासुर चैव पक
ृ ितं मोिहन िशताः
Those having disturbed minds, with vain hopes, useless actions, and fruitless knowledge have
resorted to a fiendish demoniacal and delusive nature (12)
(172) Therefore, such people are born in vain, just like clouds in off seasons or the waves of the
mirage which are worth looking at from a distance only.
(173) Or the toy-horse-riders in the game of tribes-men, kolhaties, or ornaments produced by a
juggler or the castles and buildings which appear in the clouds, though they are not real.
(174) It is just like silk-cotton trees which grow very tall and straight, but have no fruits, and their
trunks are hollow; or just like the teats hanging near the throat of sheep.
(175) Similarly the very life of such fools is futile and their actions are worthless, just as fruits of
silk-cotton tree.
(176) There, whatever they have learnt becomes as futile as a coconut plucked by a monkey or a
pearl found by a blind man.
(177) The scriptures are as useless as weapons in the hands of a young girl, or the sacred Mantra
with its spiritual ‘seeds’ told to an unworthy dirty man.
(178) O Dhananjaya, and whatever knowledge they have gained and actions they have performed,
are all futile because they are devoid of any right thinking.
(179) The wicked monstress of Tamas quality destroys good intellect and banishes the
discrimination from its place and wanders in the darkness of ignorance.
(180) They are caught in her claws, and their mind is shattered and they fall into her jaws.
(181) In the jaws of this monstress, there is saliva of desire and the tongue of violence is moving and
it is chewing the lumps of discontent.
