(182) This tongue, lapping the lips, comes out up to the ears of disasters and is really roaming about
in the valley of the mountain of blunder, always riotous.
(183) Hatred is the molar teeth in her mouth, which pulverise the real knowledge and make a pulp of
it, and she is just like skin and bones covering the ignorant fools who give importance to outward
forms.
(184) Those who fall in the mouth of this monstress of Tamas, become like offerings given to ghosts
and are totally drowned in the pool of confusion.
(185) Those who have thus fallen into the abyss of Tamas, are not reached by any discrimination,
and it is beyond description as to what dirty depths they have fallen!
(186) Enough, therefore, of this description of the fools. Only the tongue will in vain be tired by this
useless talk.
(187) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says) - The God thus said to Arjuna, and Pandava said, ‘‘Yes, yes!’’
(Upon this, the Lord said). ‘‘Please listen to the description of saints, where speech really gets
satisfaction.’’
महा मन तु मां पाथ दैव पक
ृ ितमािशताः|
भज यन यमनसो ा वा भूतािदम ययम्
O! Partha! On the other hand, great souls who have realized the divine Prakriti, knowing me as
the prime source of all beings and eternal and imperishable, worship me constantly with one-pointed
minds. (13).
(188) They are having such a pure heart that I make it my permanent abode and from them the quality
of austerity does not go away even in their dream.
(189) They are such that because of their faithful pure devotional feelings, religion reigns supreme in
their heart, and there is the softness of discrimination between right and wrong.
(190) They are such that they have bathed in the Ganges of knowledge, and have become satisfied by
taking the dinner of "Totality" and their bodies are like the new delicate leaves on the creeper of
peace.
(191) They are like new offshoots of Brahman which is the finality of all things or the pillars of the
canopy of courage or like the pots dipped in the ocean of joy and filled with it.
(192) Their devotion is of such an extreme degree that they tell the state of liberation to move away
from them. The good morality is alive due to-and in-their natural actions.
