(193) Their organs of senses and action are decorated by peace and their mind envelops my
universal all-pervading form.
(194) Such souls of very high grade of self-realization, who are the very good fortune of divine
Prakriti, know the totality of my Being.
(195) And with increasing love, worship me, but these great souls are such that their minds have
never touched by any sense of duality.
(196) O Pandava, they being myself in essence, serve me outwardly, but there is something more
surprising about them. Please listen.
सततं क तय तो मां यत त ढवताः|
नम य त मां भ या िन ययु ा उपासते
They describe and praise me, they are always striving hard to maintain the observance of their
difficult vows, they always bow before me with devotion and serve me, being always united with me.
(14)
(197) These devotees dance with ecstacy in my Keertan, (praise) thus the very business of
purificatory rites is destroyed, as the very name of sin is wiped out by them.
(198) They have made the condition of self-control of mind and body, very miserable, the sacred
places of pilgrimage have been moved away from their established places and importance, and
the whole traffic towards the region of the God of Death has been thwarted by them.
(199) The self control as to action asks- What should I control? (There is no work for me.) The self
control as to mind and senses says- What should I control and subdue? (There is no work for me.)
And the places of pilgrimage ask– What should we eat? There is no sin anywhere, even as a
medicine! (as a sample.)
(200) In this way these devotees have completely eliminated the sorrows of the universe, by
continuous loud repetition of my name and have filled the universe with the greatest happiness.
(201) They make the day of knowledge dawn without dawn ( without slow process of
developments); they give new life without the help of nectar, and they show the liberation actually
to be seen by eyes, without the help of yoga.
(202) They do not differentiate between the king and the poor, or the great and the small but they
create a home of great joy which is equally open to all people in the world.
(203) Normally seldom one goes to Vaikuntha, but they have made every place as Vaikuntha! In this
way, the whole universe has been made bright by the recitation of my name loudly and
