collectively.
(204) They are as bright as the Sun, but there is one lacunae in the Sun and that is, the Sun sets. Moon
is also full only at one time; but these are always complete!
(205) The cloud is very generous but it also becomes weak and withers away. But these people are
always as kind as the Lord Shiva.
(206) My name is seldom uttered even once, with full faith, after thousands of births; but that name is
always dancing with love on their tongue.
(207) I may not be in Vaikuntha and at some times I may not be seen in the disc of the Sun, and I may
also go beyond the scope of the minds of Yogis.
(208) But Pandava! If I am not found at these places, I will be definitely found near these devotees,
where my name is loudly being recited collectively.
(209) It is wonder how they are very happy in thinking about my divine qualities and forget the place
and time, being happy in Keertana, of their own accord.
(210) They are continuously reciting the names Krishna, Hari, Govind, etc. in their poetry, and they
are freely discussing the spiritual and devotional subjects, singing songs of my devotion and
praise my good qualities.
(211) Moreover, some are propagating my goodness and are travelling throughout the world, O, son
of Pandu!
(212) Some devotees control with extreme efforts the five (Pranas) vital winds in the body and the
mind also.
(213) Some protect the Yogic endeavour by control of mind and actions from outside, build the
castle's walls by Vajrasana and remain alertly ready with the guns of breath-control.
(214) Then they experience the oozing of nectar from the seventeenth nerve, when by the light of the
brilliant "serpent power", the mind and the vital breath are very helpful for this higher stage of the
pool of nectar being slightly bent.
(215) Then the introvert senses are highly concentrated, the vices or disturbances of the mind and
body subside completely, becoming dumb; and the senses are driven inside in the heart centre.
(216) At that time the horses of firm meditation gather together all the great elements are united into
the sky and the four-faceted army of decisions and counter-decisions is defeated and destroyed.
Mind, intellect, consciouness and Ego are the four facts.
