(217) Then the drums of victory start echoing with the slogans of ‘‘Victory! Victory!’’ and the
brilliant umbrella of unity with Brahman begins to shine forth.
(218) Then the Queen called Samadhi (Trance) is benedicted at the enthroning ceremony on the
empire of the self-experience!
(219) My dear Arjuna! This is the most secret way of my worship. Now I will tell you further about
those who worship me in this way.
(220) Just as from one end to another end of a cloth, there is one thread, similarly I am myself knitted
in this cloth of this universe. They do not know anyone other than me, like this.
(221) They know that everything right from the God Brahma at the biginning, to the smallest being
like an insect, is my own reality.
(222) They do not differentiate between the bigger and the smaller, or living or inanimate, and bow
before whatever they see in front of them, with the conviction that it is to me that they are saluting.
(223) They are not aware of their greatness, they do not know who is worthy or not worthy when
people are before them, but they like only to be lenient to bow down before every individual.
(224) Their nature is such that they automatically bow before any being whom they see. It is as
natural as water falling on a high place runs fast towards lower places.
(225) Just as the branches of a tree which is full of fruits, naturally bend towards the ground, they
become humble before all beings without exception.
(226) They are always without any pride; and humility is their only property, which they offer to me
by uttering the words "Victory! Victory to you!" just like sacred mantras!
(227) By this humility, there is end to the feeling of respect or insult and, therefore, they become me
only very easily! Being thus eternally united with me, they worship me.
(228) O Arjuna, I have told you all this about the highest devotion. Now listen about the devotees
who worship me through Sacrifice by way of self knowledge.
(229) But O, the crowned one! They are very skillful in my worship, about which you already know,
as I have earlier told you about this.
(230) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says)- When the Lord Shrikrishna said this, Arjuna said - "Yes! My Lord!
Yes! I have once been lucky enough to receive this blessing, but if nectar is being served in my
dish, should I say "Enough"?
(231) At this, Shri Ananta saw him to be very keenly interested in the subject and nodding with the
