internal joy of knowing -
(232) The Lord Shrikrishna said, "Well! Well! Arjuna! You have rightly spoken. Otherwise, actually
this was not the right place and time to broach this subject, but my affection for you provokes me
to talk.
(233) Upon this, Arjuna said, "My Lord, how is it? Is not moonlight there even in the absence of the
bird Chakora? Is it not the natural quality of moonlight to give coolness to the world, and relieve
it from the heat?
(234) The poor Chakora birds turn their beak towards the moon. Similarly my request is but very
small. His Holiness the Lord is, however, the ocean of kindness.
(235) The cloud in its own power, quenches the thirst of the whole world. Compared to that, the
thirst of the Chatak bird is so very little.
(236) But just for a handful of water of Ganges, we have to go to the bank of the Ganges. Similarly,
though my request may be very big or small, you may please tell me in detail.
(237) Saint Dnyaneshwar says- "Upon this, the Lord said-" Enough, my dear! We are already so
pleased, that further praise from you is too much for me!"
(238) The fact that you are listening with real interest, is encouraging me to talk." So saying, the
Lord Shri Hari began to speak further.
ानय ेन चा य ये यज तो मामुपासते|
एक वेन पृथ वेन बहधा िव तोमुखम्
Others who follow the path of knowledge come to worship me through offering their Knowledge,
worshipping me as one with themselves, while some others worship me in my Universal form, in
many ways, taking me to be diverse in various forms as I am in everything in the universe. (15)
(239) Of their way of worship through offering of their knowledge, these are the details- The
original primordial will is the pillar Yoopa of the sacrificial lamb, the five elements make the
Tent, and divisive point of view is the animal to be sacrificed.
(240) Then there are various articles required for performance of the sacrifice; they are composed of
the various qualities of the five elements, or the sense-organs and Prana the vital breath. The
ignorance is the Ghee which is put in the fire by the ladle.
(241) The pit of the sacrificial fire is made of the mind and the intellect; and in the pit the fire is of
the knowledge and the state of equilibrium is the Vedika (place where the gods are worshipped).
