(242) The cleverness of the intellect endowed with discrimination is the glory of the knowledge of
mantras, peace makes the two pouring ladles, while Jeeva is the one who performs the actual
sacrifice.
(243) He holds in his hand the pot of actual experience, saying the mantra of discrimination, and
using the fire as the means, he destroys (sacrifices) the divisive attitude.
(244) There, ignorance is finished and the difference between the one who performs the sacrifice
and the act of offering does not remain, and when the Jeeva becomes united with the Atman in all
its essence that becomes the last bath of completion of the sacrifice.
(245) Then he does not say that the elements, the objects and the means or sense organs are separate
things, because, being one with Atman, he sees that all these are one only.
(246) Dear Arjuna, this is like a man who is awakened, says- "I myself had become all the things in
my dream because I was asleep!"
(247) "Now that whole army of various things was not actual army. I was myself that army." -In the
same way the man of knowledge feels the universe as one only.
(248) Then the term that he is Jeeva is not applicable, and the universe right from the Brahman is full
of self-knowledge. They worship me in this manner, on the path of knowledge.
(249) There are some other devotees who presume that the universe is beginningless; in this universe
one thing is just like the other but there is difference in the name and form.
(250) Thus there is variety in this universe, but knowledge is only one, it is not having varieties just
as, though the limbs are many, they belong to only one body.
(251) This is like branches which are many, some small and some large, but all belong to one tree;
and rays are many but they are of the one Sun only.
(252) Similarly there are many persons and they have got many names and many natures but they, the
devotees, know me to be one only, in all the different beings.
(253) O, Pandava, these men of knowledge do not make any difference in the various
consciousnesses. They know that the "Knowing" is one and worship me in many such ways.
(254) Or we can say that whatever they see in whatever place, they know me to be "that". This is
their understanding.
(255) Just see for an example. Whatever distance a bubble may travel, it has nothing but only water
in it and even if it breaks up, there is water again in which it perishes.
