(256) Or little particles raised up from the ground by the wind are not different from the earth and
even if they fall to the ground, they fall on earth only.
(257) Similarly any thing or any being may be anywhere in any form or nature, or may be not there,
everything is me only. This is the conviction of such devotees.
(258) Whatever and however little or great is my expanse, it is their expanse, equally little or great,
of understanding. In this way, though they perceive many, they become the variety of beings in
various forms and live in that fullness.
(259) O Dhananjaya, whoever sees the Sun, he finds that the Sun is always facing that person.
Similarly these devotees are always facing the whole universe directly, because they are
complete with understanding.
(260) O Arjuna, just as the wind is totally contained in the sky, similarly, there is no division as
front or back side, for their knowledge; because it is all-embracing in a peculiar unity.
(261) O Pandava, their devotional faith is exactly measurable, or commensurate with my all-
pervading nature and therefore, though they may not actually perform worship, their existence is
itself my worship.
(262) In another sense, since I am myself everywhere, is there anybody who does not worship me by
his existence only? But only because of their ignorance I remain "unattained" in their case.
(263) But this is enough. These devotees worship me as said above, by way of sacrifice by
knowledge, and thus I have explained to you about them.
(264) They continuously offer to me only whatever they put in the mouth of everyone (give
everyone), but they, being unaware of this fact, do not reach me.
अहं कतुुरहं य ः वधाऽहमहमौषधम्|
म तोऽहमहमेवा यमहमि नरहं हतम्
I am the Vedic ritual (कतु). I am the sacrifice in fire, I am the offering to the departed souls; I am
the herbs; I am mantra, I am clarified butter, I am the sacred fire and I am the sacred things offered in
that fire (16)
(265) If they become aware of this all-pervading nature of mine, then for them, I am the Veda which
is the basic knowledge and I am also the detailed act of sacrifice which the Veda lays down.
(266) O Pandava, I am also the benevolent sacrifice which is evident, by that act of offering as per
the rules, with all its various concommitant actions.
