(267) I am the offering to Gods as well as to the departed Pitrus, I am the various herbs like "Soma";
I am the specially prepared clarified butter, I am the wooden sticks to be offered, I am the Mantra
and I am all the materials offered in the sacrificial fire.
(268) I am the performer of sacrifice; I am the act of the offering, I am the fire in that pit, I am
everything that is sacrificed.
िपताऽहम य जगतो माता धाता िपतामहः|
वे ं पिवतम कार ऋ साम यजुरे व च
I am the father mother, and the grandfather of this universe, as well as its sustainer and ruler. I am
the final knowable principle, I am the purifier, the sacred syllable Om, and the three Vedas, viz.
Rugveda, Yajurveda and Samaveda. (17)
(269) I am the father, by conjugation with whom the Prakriti becomes manifest as the world, by her
own eightfold body.
(270 In the image of Male-Female God, the Male is himself the Female. So, I am also the mother of
all the sentient and insentient world.
(271) And that base on which the created world lives and grows is nothing other than I myself.
(272) I am also the grandfather of this whole universe, by whose will the Father and the Mother-
both are born in his abstract Nature.
(273) And I am the knowable principle, to which all the paths of knowledge lead, and come to the
city-square of Vedas for that purpose.
(274) Where many opinions are reconciled, where various sciences and systems of philosophy are
mutually recognized and where the separate cults come together on the right path, and which is
called the purifier,
(275) That OM I am, which is the sprout of the seed of Brahman, and which is the sound uttered with
inner resonance, and which is the home of that sound.
(276) That OM I am, in the Womb of which the three syllables of A, U and M are born together with
the three Vedas respectively.
(277) And I am those three Vedas also!" Thus said Lord Shrikrishna the ‘‘Atmarama’’, ‘‘Thus I am
the whole successive manifestations of the Veda.’’
गितभता पभुः सा ी िनवासः शरणं सु त्|
पभवः पलयः थानं िनधानं बीजम ययम्
