I am the highest goal of all beings, I am their supporter, lord, witness, abode, refuge, the well-
wisher, the beginning and the dissolution, the final resting place and the seed which is eternal and
non-perishable. (18)
(278) I am the highest and the supreme place where Prakriti which contains all the creation, comes
to take rest.
(279, 280) And O the son of Pandu, I am the Husband of Laxmi, the riches of all the universe, whose
support is taken by Prakriti to create the universe, and by whose power Prakriti remains alive and
I am He, who, wearing the garment which is Prakriti enjoys the three qualities of Sattwa, Rajas
and Tamas. I am the Lord of all the three worlds.
(281) That the sky should be everywhere, that the wind should blow without a moment's rest, that the
fire should burn and that there should be rain;
(282) That the mountains should not leave their seat, that the sea should not transgress its shoreline
and that the earth should bear the burden of all beings is my order!
(283) When I tell, Veda talks, when I make the Sun move, He moves, when I provoke, the vital
breath, which makes all the beings move, functions properly.
(284) O son of Pandu! By my control it is that the "Time" eats all beings, whose express orders all
the beings obey.
(285) I am the Lord of this world, having such powers, and I am also the witness for all, just like the
sky.
(286) I am that, who is, O, Pandava, permeating all the names and forms and I am myself also the
basic support of all the names and forms.
(287) Just as the waves are made of water and in the waves also there is water, thus I am the abode
in which I hold all beings, where they reside.
(288) I obviate the birth and death of him who comes to me and take refuge in me and, therefore, I
am the only place of surrendering himself.
(289) I assume forms and with the various qualities of the Prakriti, function as Vital breath and live
in the living beings.
(290) Just as the Sun shines upon and throws its refections in every body of water without making
any distinction between sea and a small pit, so, I am the friendly well-wisher to all beings right
from the god Brahma.
(291) Dear Pandava, I am the anchor for this trinity of the worlds and I am the cause for its beginning
