(304) Or like a blind man, while running for a morsel of food pushes the gem Chitamani which is
lying on the path, they are blind to this fact.
(305) So, this is the condition when knowledge leaves a man; therefore, that which should be done is
not possible without knowledge.
(306) If a blind man has the wings of an eagle, what is their use? So, without knowledge the efforts
done for doing some good deed, become useless.
तैिव ा मां सोमपाः पूतपापा य ै र वा वगितं पाथय ते|
ते पु यमासा सुरे दलोकम ि त िद याि दिव देवभोगान्
Those who perform action with some motive, as laid down in the three Vedas and drink the juice
of 'Soma' plant and have thus been purged of sins, worship me by way of sacrificial rituals, and seek
access to heaven; They attain the paradise of Indra as a result of their virtuous deeds, and enjoy the
celestial pleasures, worthy of the gods in heaven. (20)
(307) O Arjuna, please consider the persons about whom I am going o tell you. They perform actions
according to their ordained duties as per their stage in life, as laid down by scriptures, in such a
perfect manner that they become the standards to be followed by others.
(308) Seeing their performance of the sacrificial rituals, all the three Vedas nod in satisfaction and
the fruit of their action stands in front of them together with the action.
(309) Such initiated scholars who partake of the juice 'Soma', who are the very image of sacrifice,
have, by the way of merit in that action, actually earned the sin in bargain!
(310) They know the three Vedas, perform hundreds of sacrifices, but missing me who receives the
offerings, choose to gain heaven.
(311) It is like a man of bad luck who sits below the divine wish-tree, ties the knot of his begging
sack and starts out for begging!
(312) Similarly, they perform hundreds of sacrifices as a propitiation to me, but desire and aspire
for the heavenly pleasures! Is it their merit? Is it not sin?
(313) So, it is the ignorants way of earning merit to desire heaven by denying me. The men of real
knowledge call it a nuisance, a real loss!
(314) Actually, experiencing the pains in the hell, people call the condition in heaven as happiness
but my real nature is the only eternal joy without any blemish.
(315) O the great warrior, Arjuna! These are the indirect paths of approaching me, through hell and
