heaven, which are the ways haunted by robbers.
(316) The heaven is reached by the sin which is wrongly called merit, and the hell is reached by the
sin which is actually known as sin; but that action is pure merit by which I am reached.
(317) O Arjuna, will not the tongue be cut into hundreds of slices, which says that the Jeevas who
are actually within me, desire to be separate from me and wish for heaven by calling their actions
as merit?
(318) But let it be! Please listen in short. Those who are thus initiated perform sacrifices for me but
desire to enjoy the heavenly pleasures.
(319) Then with that sin in the garb of merit, by which I am not attained, they reach heaven, by the
power of that achievement.
(320) That heaven where deathlessness is the throne, the elephant Airawata is the means of
conveyance and Amarawati is the capital.
(321) That heaven where there are storehouses of great occult power, stores of nectar, and there are
many divine cows (Kamdhenu) in a big herd.
(322) That heaven where gods of different kinds are ready to serve, the flooring is of the gems
Chintamani, and gardens of the divine- wish trees, for deriving pleasure of walking about.
(323) The angels of music are singing songs, divine courtesans like Rambha are dancing, and among
them the best is Urvashi.
(324) The cupid personally attends the bedrooms, the moon sprinkles the country and where
obedient servants like wind are messengers.
(325) There are benevolent Brahmins whose leader is Brihaspati (the Guru of gods) and there are
court-singers who are official prayer-reciters.
(326) The regents of all Directions are standing attention in order to listen to the praise of the man;
while many horses are there led by "Uchhaishrawa".
(327) Let the details be put aside. Those who are such performers of sacrifices, enjoy these
pleasures in leaven so long as there is some merit in stock.
ते तं भु वा पु यलोक
ं िवशालं ीणे पु ये म यलोक
ं िवशि त|
एवं तयीधममनुपप ना गतागतं कामकामा लभ ते
Having enjoyed the heaven-world, they return to this world of mortals, when the stock of their
merit is exhausted. Thus, who follow the path advised by the three Vedas, seeking worldly pleasures
