get the cycle of coming and going because of their desires. (21)
(328) Then the merit earned is finished and its support is no more. The anointment of the power of
God Indra is washed down, and these souls begin to come back to the region of death.
(329) Just as a man spends all his money for a prostitute and then he is not allowed even to knock at
her door, similarly shameful is then the living of such initiated people.
(330) Thus those who choose heavenly pleasure instead of my eternal reality lose the real
deathlessness and come back to this world of death.
(331) They remain for nine mouths in the womb of their mothers, troubled by all sorts of hot
secretions in their vicinity and come out only to die eventually after a life full of miseries.
(332) The heavenly pleasures of person who is well-versed in performance of sacrifices according
to Vedas should be considered equal to the treasures received in the dream, which is lost as soon
as the man is awake.
(333) O Arjuna, even if a man is well-versed in Vedas and if he does not know me, his life is
useless just as some one who throws away the grain and takes the husk.
(334) Therefore, in the absence of knowledge of my Reality, the rules of all the three Vedas are
useless. It is definite that if you know me, and do not know anything else, still you will be really
happy.
अन याि तय तो मां ये जनाः पयुपासते|
तेषां िन यािभयु ानां योग ेमं वहा यहम्
To the devotees who, loving no one else, constantly think of me, and worship me in a one-
pointed devotion, I bring all that they need, to achieve the fulfillment of their yogic practices (22).
(335) Those who are completely surrendered to me, by their mind, just as the child in the womb
does not know any efforts.
(336) Similarly for them nothing is worth the name other than I and they call me their very life.
(337) To those who worship me in such a one-pointed devotion, I offer my own self.
(338) The moment they gather all their faculties and offer everything to me, the whole welfare of
these devotees becomes my concern.
(339) Then I have myself to do everything that they do, just like the mother bird does everything for
her young one which has not yet grown its wings.
