(346) Just consider. Are not the branches and leaves belonging to the tree of the same seed, but
water is taken through the roots and it is to be poured there only.
(347) All the ten sense-organs etc. are of the same body and the senses created by their contact with
objects go in, at the same place.
(348) But should good food be prepared and filled into the ear, or should we bring flowers and tie
them on the eyes?
(349) Food is to be relished by the mouth only and fragrance is to be smelt by nose only. Similarly
sacrifice should be performed for me, keeping me only in view, as the deity.
(350) Any worship without knowing me is quite useless and not proper. Therefore knowledge is the
'eyes' of action and those eyes should be without any defeet.
अहं िह सवय ानां भो ा च पभुरे व च|
न तु मामिभजानि त त वेनात यवि त ते
I am the receiver of the fruits of all the Yadnyas, and I am the Ruler, but they do not recognize me
as I am in truth. Therefore they err. (24)
(351) O son of Pandu! Anyway, who else except me is there, to receive everything that is offered in
the sacrifices?
(352) I am the origin of all sacrifices, and the end limit of sacrifices done, but those with spoilt
intellect, worship gods by missing me.
(353) Just as the water of Ganges is offered to Ganges, purported to be for the dead ancestors, so,
they give me what is mine, but with different faiths.
(354) O Partha, therefore, they do not come to me. They go to the region of those Deities for whom
they have faith.
याि त देववता देवान् िपतॄन् याि त िपतृवताः|
भूतािन याि त भूते या याि त म ािजनोऽिप माम्
Those who worship gods go to their region; those who worship forefathers, go to their region,
and those who perform sacrifices for ghosts and astral elements, go to their regions while those who
perform sacrifice explicitly for me, come unto me. (25)
(355) Those who employ their mind, speech and senses also, for the worship of various gods like
Indra etc. reach, after the death of physical body, the region of those gods and become gods.
