(356) And those who worship the ancestors with all their mind, go to their region after death, and
join the hosts of those ancestors.
(357) Those whose deities of worship belong to the lowest cadre of astral beings and whom they
worship even by the prohibited methods of dark side of penance,
(358) Become themselves those lowest denizens of the astral world as soon as the cover of their
physical body is disintegrated at death. Thus their actions bring fruit as per their desires.
(359) But there are those who see me only by their eyes, hear about me only by their ears, think
about me only in their mind and praise me only by their speech-
(360) Bow down by all their body to me only in all beings, and whatever they give or do in charity
is aimed at me only.
(361) Thus they have studied me only; they have become me only inside and out; this is the condition
of those who have joined their whole life with me only.
(362) They have pride in their mind and body by which they say "We are (servants) of Hari (i.e. The
Lord) and whatever greed they have is only for me!
(363) All their desire is for me; all their love is for me, and their mind is so obsessed with me that
they are not aware of the world and people around them.
(364) All their scriptures are for knowing me; all their Mantras help them attain unity with me only.
Thus, those who have worshipped me even by their actions of every kind,–
(365) They have already been merged into me even before their death! Then where else will they go
after their death?
(366) Therefore, those who do perform sacrifices only for me, come into me, totally being one with
me, who have offered themselves to me by way of offering various ritualistic articles (such as
fragrance, flowers, clothes, bath, etc. etc.)
(367) Dear Arjuna, unless one offers oneself to me by one's own self-realization, I am not knowable
by any outward acts of rituals and propitiation.
(368) In this path of devotion he who is proud of his knowledge, does not know; who boasts of his
prestigious position should be known as wanting something, and he who declares "I have arrived,
I now know!" is 'nothing' at all and says, that he is liberated, is not at all liberated.
(369) O, the warrior with a great crown! The rituals, sacrifices, charities or very boastful penances,
are not worth a blade of grass on this path.
