(370) Just consider : Is there anyone superior in knowledge than the Vedas? Or is there any one more
talkative than the Shesha cobra?
(371) But that Shesha hides himself below my bed and the Vedas say "NOT THIS, NOT THIS"
(because words fail to say anything about me). Here, even the divine Kumaras (like the Lord
Sanaka, etc.) are confused in the matter of knowing me thoroughly.
(372) If test is taken of all he Yogis who perform penance, who can be counted even near to Lord
Shankara? But even he, in all humility holds on his head (the river Mandakini) the waters falling
down from my feet.
(373) Or, who is there who can surpass goddess Laxmi in the matter of Glory and Riches? There are
in her house, maids like the prosperity called SHREE.
(374) Those maids while playing, prepared small toy houses! These houses are called the cities of
Gods, viz Amarpuras! So, are not the gods including Indra, their toys to be played with?
(375) When being fed up, these maids destroy the toy-houses, the gods like the great Indra, become
paupers! The trees which these maids of Laxmi just see with a kind glance, become the Divine
wish-trees!
(376) That Laxmi whose maids are of such power, and whose domestic servants are so powerful
was not much respected here!
(377) Then, O Pandava, she dropped all her pride, by doing service to me and became lucky enough
to wash my feet!
(378) Therefore, when one totally sets aside all learning and pride forgets all one's knowledge, and
when one considers oneself as the lowliest of all beings, then only I am near that devotee.
(379) My dear! Even the moon becomes pale before the brilliant light of the sun! Why should a little
fire-fly show off its tiny spot of light?
(380) So, how can an ordinary person dare try to know me, where the greatness of Laxmi also falls
short and the penance of Lord Shankara is also not adequate enough to know me?
(381) Therefore, all pride about one's body should be dropped, all the accomplishment of all
qualities should be set aside, and the pride of riches should be got rid of!
पतं पु पं फलं तोयं यो मे भ या पय छित|
तदहं भ युप तम ािम पयता मनः
I accept all things offered by a devotee of a self-controlled mind with a deep devotion- may it be
