a leaf, flower, a fruit or even water (26).
(382) There may be a fruit of any kind, but if it is taken in hand with tremendous faith and devotion
and with all the happy earnestness,
(383) and if the devotee holds it towards me, I spread both my hands with respect and eat it, together
with its stem!
(384) If my devotee gives me with his faith even a flower, normally I should smell it, but I eagerly
eat it.
(385) What of flowers? Even a leaf is liked by me. I do not care if it is tender or dried -up.
(386) I only see that it is given with full devotion and just as a hungry man is satisfied by nectar, I
become satisfied by that leaf.
(387) And sometimes it so happens that even a leaf is not available for the devotee; but water is
available. There is no difficulty in getting it.
(388) It is available anywhere without cost and without effort. When that water is offered by the
devotee with his whole heart,
(389) Then he should be considered to have constructed greater temples than Vaikuntha or more
brilliant ornaments than Kaustubha for me.
(390) Or he has offered me beds as clean as milk or as beautiful as ocean of milk.
(391) Or he has erected for my use, a mountain higher than Meru, made of camphor, sandal-wood,
and aguru, or he has lighted a lamp, shining like the Sun before me.
(392) Or he has offered me such conveyances like eagle, or created gardens of divine wish-tree or
offered herds of divine cows.
(393) He has as if served me various dishes of delicacies, tastier than nectar! Thus I am fully
satisfied by a little water offered by such devotees.
(394) O Arjuna, it is not necessary to tell you all this. My dear, for a handful of rice-flakes, I had
opened the knot of the piece of cloth of Sudama, my devotee, which you have already known.
(395) Really, I care only for the devotion. I do not make distinction between a small offering or a
great one. We are guests hungry for love that is offered.
(396) Actually, a leaf, a flower or a fruit are only a means, a token of expressing devotion. We are
concerned only about the sincere devotion, without reference to the thing offered.
