(397) Therefore, O Arjuna, you should only keep your intellect straight and clear; so as not to forget
me in the temple of your mind.
य करोिष यद ािस य जुहोिष ददािस यत्|
य प यिस कौ तेय त क
ु व मदपणम्
Arjuna, whatever you do, whatever you eat, whatever you offer as oblation to the sacred fire,
whatever you give, whatever you do by way of penance, offer it all to me. (27)
(398) Whatever activities you do, or pleasures you enjoy or offer sacrifice according to various
systems,
(399) Or whatever you give to particular recipients or provide something for subsistence of your
servants or practise various methods of penance or observe rules of conduct,
(400) All those activities which come along to be done in the due course of your life, should be
offered to me with pure devotion.
(401) But there should not be any awareness or concept in your mind that you have done these things.
Your actions should be washed clean in this manner and offered to me.
शुभाशुभफलैरे वं मो यसे कमब धनैः|
सं यासयोगयु ा मा िवमु ो मामुपै यिस
Thus you will be free of the good or bad results of your actions and being accomplished in the
Yoga of surrendering everything; and being totally liberated, you will come unto me. (28)
(402) Then all your actions either good or bad, when offered to me will not bear any fruit, just like
the seeds put into fire, do not sprout at all.
(403) My dear, if at all, actions remain without being offered to me, then only the question arises of
taking birth in a body, in order to suffer their results.
(404) When that action is surrendered to me, at that time only the death and birth are wiped out, and
all the troubles that follow are also obviated.
(405) Therefore, without any further delay, O Arjuna, you should follow the easy method of
immediately surrendering your actions to me, which I have explained to you just now.
(406) You should not be bound by your body and be drowned in the sea of pain and pleasure, but
with happiness be united to my reality which is total happiness.
