(430) O Partha! How much should I repeat the same thing? If you desire to be one with me, never
neglect this devotion.
(431) My dear! I advise my devotees, - "Do not insist on the necessity of noble and pure ancestry, do
not care about noble birth; and why should you vainly hanker for deep learning?
(432) Why should you become puffed up by your beauty and boast about your riches? It is all useless
if you have no devotion for me.
(433) What is the use of a fat ear of rice etc. which has no grains in it? What is the use of a beautiful
town which is without anyone residing in it?
(434) Or, what is the use of a dried up lake? Or a miserable man meeting another miserable one in a
desolated forest? Or a fruitless tree full of flowers?
(435) Similarly all the riches, the high rank or caste and all the glory of family etc. are useless
(without devotion) just like a good body is complete with all limbs but has no life.
(436) Similarly, if there is no devotion for me, let that life be burnt! Are there not many stones on the
earth?
(437) Just as even the shadow of a thorny cactus is avoided by sensible persons, so, the merits avoid
those who are not devotees.
(438) A Neem tree may be full of its fruits, but it is a feast only for crows; similarly a man without
my devotion, becomes a home for all vices even if he becomes very rich.
(439) For example, if lavish food is kept in an earthen dish and left on the road in a city square, it is
consumed only by dogs.
(440) Similarly useless is the life of a person who is not a devotee. No good deeds are done by him
even in his dream. He has as if served food to the sorrow of worldly life!
(441) Therefore, let the family not be of a noble ancestry, let the caste be of the lowest rank, or the
body may be even of an animal!
(442) Just take the example of the elephant who when caught by the crocodile remembered my name
with all piteous lament; and his being an animal was of no account when by my help that elephant
became united with me.
मां िह पाथ यपािश य येऽिप युः पापयोनयः|
ि तयो वै या तथा शूदा तेऽिप याि त परां गितम्
