O Partha, by taking refuge in me, those who belong to the categories of tribes generally
considered to be sinners and also women, merchants etc. and persons belonging to Shoodra caste, all
attain the supreme abode. (33).
(443) O Arjuna, those whose names are also a bad omen to utter, who are thus born in the lowliest
of the low castes, which are considered as doomed to sin;
(444) Those who are thus born in the castes of sinners and are as stupid as stones, but are very firm
in my devotion with strong faith-;
(445) Who talk only about me, see only my beautiful image, and think about me only with their
minds;
(446) Whose ears are never empty, being always full of my fame, and for whom, serving me only is
the 'ornament' on their body;
(447) Whose knowledge does not know the worldly objects, consciousness knows me alone and
considers it worth while to live like this and thinks that otherwise it is death;
(448) O Pandava, those who have thus made me refuge for them in all respects, and in all faith, the
only support for their living.
(449) They may be of such low castes, and may not be well-read and learned, but they are not a trifle
less when compared with me.
(450) Just see how in the matter of greatness of devotion, the demons have surpassed gods! I took the
form of a 'man-lion' because of whose devotion-
(451) That Pralhad was harassed by many, only because he was my devotee, but he is so dear to me,
that whatever I wish to give to my devotees, is first given in his words.
(452) Otherwise, his family was definitely of demons but even the king of gods, Indra could not
surpass him in devotion! Therefore, in this path, devotion is only counted, and caste is not the
criterian.
(453) When the leather coin is imprinted with the king's authentic promise, that coin is valued in all
transactions, to purchase all things.
(454) There, gold and silver are not valued. The king's authority is having that value and when that
leather coin is thus authorized, all things are sold in its exchange.
(455) Similarly when the mind and intellect are full of love for me, then only noble birth or worldly
prestige and knowledge of all kinds are of some value!
