यूढां दुपदपुतेण तव िश येण धीमता
Sanjaya said, “At that time, seeing the army of Pandavas strategically arranged for battle, the
King Duryodhana approached the teacher Drona and spoke these words.’’ (2)
a Behold, Master, the mighty army of the sons of Pandu arrayed for fighting by your talented
disciple Dhrishtadyumna, the son of Drupada.’’ (3)
(88) At that time, Sanjaya said, “The army of Pandavas appeared like the open jaws of death at the
time of total destruction of the universe.
(89) The concentrated army collectively upsurged just like the boiling poison Kalakoota. Who can
prevent it?
(90) Or, it appeared as if the fire in the ocean has become very forceful by the winds of destruction
and having sucked up the ocean dry, has risen up to the high skies.
(91) Similar to these, that well-organised uncontrollable army which was arranged in various
strategic positions of warriors, appeared very fearsome.
(92) However, though Duryodhana saw that army, he did not care about it, just as a lion does not
care about a group of elephants.
(93) Then he came up to Drona and said to him, “Have you seen how the army of Pandavas has taken
an offensive stance?
(94) The various strategic arrangements of their army are like mountain-forts on the move. These
arrangements are made by Dhrushtadyumna, who is the intelligent son of Drupada.
(95) O Master! See! See! How this Dhrushtadyumna to whom you taught and made Master of the
science of war, has spread out at large the ocean of the army of Pandavas!
अत शूरा महे वासा भीमाजुनसमा युिध|
युयुधानो िवराट दुपद महारथः
There are in this war many wielders of bows and arrows like Bheema, Arjuna, Yuyudhana,
Virata, Drupada who is great chariotrider. (Maharatha) (4)
(96) There are also extraordinary warriors who have mastery over all the weapons and missiles,
and are experts in the skill and duty of kshatriyas.
(97) There are heroes who are equal to Bheema and Arjuna in physical strength, pride and bravery. I
am going to tell you their names as the occasion arises.
