(456) Therefore, family, caste or social status are not important. O Arjuna, the fact that they belong
to me is itself sufficient.
(457) The mind may come and enter into me in any way and by any pretext whatsoever, but when it
enters, all the past things of the worldly life are not counted.
(458) This is like the fact that ordinary brooks are called brooks only so long as they are not merged
into Ganges, and when they are merged they are Ganges only from that moment,
(459) Or the kinds of wood like khair, sandalwood etc. are considered so long as they are not
burned together in fire and become fire.
(460) Similarly all the differences like Kshatriya, (warriors,) merchants, women or Shoodras and
low-caste, etc. are valid so long as the people do not become united with me.
(461) When they meet me and become one with me, their individual castes etc. become null and
void, just as particles of salt are merged in the sea.
(462) The names of big and small rivers and their directions of flowing are con-sidered as eastern
or western, so long as all of them do not merge into the sea.
(463) So, it may be by any way or attitude, but the mind should enter into me. When it enters, it is
destined to be 'Me' naturally.
(464) For example, even if iron is used to break the magic-stone ‘Parees’, as soon as it touches that
stone it is going to be transformed into gold.
(465) Just see, did not all the young ladies in Vraja become united with me even though they loved
me as if I am their beloved?
(466) Did not Kansa become united with me by his consciousness, by his constant fear and did not
those like Chaidya Shishupal, become one with me by constant enmity towards me?
(467) My dear, it is by their being my relatives that Yadavas are united to me and by sense of my-
ness about me Vasudeva and all other elderly relatives are united with me.
(468) Similarly I am one with my devotees like Narada, Dhruva, Akroora, Shuka and the Sanat
Kumara through their undeviated devotion.
(469) Similarly I am one with others, like Gopis through their desire, Kansa through his fear and
Shishupal etc. through their violent enmity.
(470) A person may come to me as the final goal by any path, either through devotion or ascetic
austerity or through enmity.
