(483) Such Brahmins who are the mountains of spiritual merit, and are extremely devoted to me-
definitely attain me. - Is it necessary to justify this by argu-ments?
(484) My dear, purified by the wind coming from sandalwood trees, 'Neem' trees also give
fragrance and their cut wood is offered on the foreheads of the idols of the Gods!
(485) Then how can we think that sandalwood itself will not adore the foreheads of gods, and is
argument necessary to prove that it will so adorn?
(486) When the Lord Shiva holds half moon on his forehead with a hope that it will have a cooling
effect;
(487) How can sandalwood which cools down heat and which is full, not be applied to the whole
body?
(488) Is there any other aim for Ganges except the sea, when even the street -gutters reach the sea by
simply joining the Ganges?
(489) Therefore, for the saintly kings and Brahmins whose thoughts are about me and the final goal is
also myself, I am the last and supreme aim and the resting place. This is thrice true.
(490) Considering this, I ask, (is it wise not to worship me?) how can one sit in a boat which has
hundreds of holes and still be lazily self-satisfied? How should one sit undressed in a battle-field
while weapons are being freely used there?
(491) Is it wise not to protect oneself by a shield when stones are falling on one's body? Why should
one be apathic to medicine when one is down with ailments?
(492) O Pandava, why should not one get away quickly when there is forest fire around?
(493) What kind of power or strength is there in man, that he does not worship me? How dare he put
confidence and security in his house and enjoyments of pleasures?
(494) What surety is there for all these beings in their pleasures and happiness, in their knowledge
or youth, that they do not worship me?
(495) Really, whatever objects are there for enjoyments are related only to the physical body, and
this body is already fallen in the mouth of death!
(496) This mortal world is a large market place where loads and loads of pain and sorrow are
thrown open for sale; and death is continuously arriving there wholesale! In this market Jeeva is
compelled to come when this marked is full.
(497) Then, O the son of Pandu, how can trading of happiness take place here? Can ash be forcefully
