kindled into a lamp by blowing air on it?
(498) It is like poisonous roots being crushed and their juice taken as nectar, with a hope to be
deathless!
(499) Likewise, pleasure derived from sense-objects is really the greatest suffering! But what can be
done? The fool does not stop from taking it.
(500) It is just as by cutting our head off, it is used as a bandage for the wound on the foot- such is
the case of all that is called 'good' in this mortal world.
(501) So, can anybody hear a story that in this mortal world, there is happiness? How can one sleep
happily on the bed of scorpions?
(502) In this world, the Moon is a victim of tuberculosis; the Sun rises only to set, and the sorrow
dons the garb of happiness and harasses the world.
(503) Here in the bud of auspicious things, the pest of evil easily thrives and death catches even the
child, hidden in the womb of a mother.
(504) Here everybody hankers for things which are unreal, and these unreal things are snatched away
by the messengers of death-god; and it is never known where they take them.
(505) Even if we search untiringly, we never find any way out of this complexity and O Arjuna, all
the mythological books are merely stories of the dead and bygones.
(506) Even if somebody tries to describe the impermanency of everything in this world for the
duration of the great life-period of the god Brahma, it will not be possible to give a complete
description of it.
(507) When such is the ephemeral condition of this world, it is really surprising that the jeevas, who
are born here become carelessly indolent.
(508) My dear, the very people who are never ready to spend a farthing for the visible or invisible
things which are of real benefit, are seen here throwing away crores of rupees for useless things
which are most harmful to them.
(509) Here, people call a man to be very 'happy' who is involved and engrossed in varieties of
sensual enjoyments and they call a man as 'wise', who is crushed under the burden of lust and
greed!
(510) They call a man 'elderly' whose remaining life is short and whose intellect is muddled at the
age of sixty; and respectfully salute him.
