(511) As a child gradually grows up, its parents dance with joy, but they are not at all worried that
side by side, his life-span is becoming shorter and shorter.
(512) The child grows gradually but it becomes the prey to death, but people celebrate its birth-day
and wave flag of joy.
(513) They do not even like to hear the word 'die' and if somebody dies, they cry loudly, but they do
not take into account, out of their foolishness, that everyday the man is slowly dying.
(514) Just as a frog, which is half in the mouth of serpent and is about to die, projects its tongue to
catch a fly, similarly the beings go on increasing their lust, one does not know for what benefit!
(515) Alas! See how everything is perverted in this mortal world! Arjuna, it so happens that you are
born here due to your Karma!
(516) Still you should now forcefully throw everything away and be free of it, and follow the path of
devotion by which you are definitely going to reach my imperishable permanent abode.
म मना भव म ो म ाजी मां नम क
ु |
मामेवै यिस यु वैवमा मानं म परायणः
Fix your mind on me, be devoted to me, worship me by way or sacrifices and bow to me; thus
linking yourself with me, and entirely connected to me, you shall come to me only. (34)
(517) You should make your mind identical with me, have love for my worship, and knowing me to
be everywhere, bow to me.
(518) In the process of concentration on me, you should burn your personal projections of mind. This
is called performance of sacrifice for me.
(519) Thus you will be saturated with eager devotion to me, and then only you will become myself.
This is the secret in my heart which I have told you.
(520) My dear, this is the secret which we have kept hidden from all people, and which will make
you completely happy.
(521) Sanjaya said, "In this way, the embodied and darkish Absolute Brahman in person, the divine
tree which fulfills the desires of his devotees and who is Atman, (Lord Krishna) said to Arjuna."
(522) O Listeners, all this the old king Dhritarashtra was hearing, but on this statement of Sanjaya he
was quietly sitting like a buffalo who does not move at all.
(523) Seeing this, Sanjaya nodded meaningfully and said to himself," Lo! Here the nectar is raining!
