But this king though sitting here, has, as if, gone to another town in the neighbourhood.
(524) But he is my employer. Therefore, it is not good to spoil my tongue by saying anything like
this. It cannot be helped. Such is his nature only.
(525) But it is really my good fortune that in the job of reporting about the war, I am protected by the
great sage Vyasa!
(526) Saint Dnyaneshwar says, "While Sanjaya was somehow talking this to himself with his mind
under control, he could not contain his ecstacy due to the Sattwik (Pious) emotions.
(527) His mind was suddenly overwhelmed with joy, his tongue was tied, and the whole body was
full of goose-pimples.
(528) His eyes were half open and tears of joy were falling from them. By the force of inner wave of
joy his body trembled.
(529) There were tiny drops of sweat in every pore of his body by which he appeared to have worn
the net knitted by pearls.
(530) As he was out of his mind because of the extra-ordinary joy, he forgot to do his job, as
directed by the sage Vyas.
(531) But suddenly the deep, sweet voice of Lord Krishna penetrated his ears and made him aware
of the situation around him, and made him ready to continue the reporting.
(532) He wiped his eyes and also the sweat on his body and said, "My Lord king Dhrutarashtra, I am
telling you further. Please pay attention."
(533) Now the selected seeds of the speech of Lord ShriKrishna and the interest of Sanjaya as the
fertile land cultivated for second crop, have come together so nicely that the listeners will
definitely benefit by the crop of final doctrines without any doubt.
(534) O Listeners, just pay a little attention and then recline easily on the great heap of joy because
today the good fortune has put the garland around the neck of your ears.
(535) Dnyanadeo, the disciple of Nivritti says, "Now the great master Shri Krishna will tell Arjuna
the various places of his divine manifestations, which please listen to with attention.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे राजिव ारा यगु योगो नाम नवमोऽ यायः
Thus, in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of knowledge of Brahman, in the
scripture on Yoga, and in the dialogue between Shrikrishna and Arjuna, the 9th chapter by name "The
