(69) The world born out of me will be able to know me, if the water flowing down towards
lowlands will climb up the mountain again or the tree growing high will again go back to its root.
(70) Or if the little leaf of the sprout of a banyan tree can be able to cover the whole tree or if the sea
can be contained in a ripple or the whole sphere of the world can be confined into a little
particle.
(71) Then perhaps there may be some scope for the beings which are born out of me, and the great
sages and the gods, to know my Reality.
यो मामजमनािदं च वेि लोकमहे रम्|
असंमूढः स म यषु सवपापैः पमु यते
He who knows me to be un-born and beginningless as well as the great god of all the worlds, is
the wisest among all the mortals and becomes free of all sins. (3)
(72) Even then, if a man, by stopping his outward rush of desires, becomes introvert, turning his back
to all the senses,
(73) And even if he has been active outwardly turns back and surpassing his identification with his
body, climbs up beyond all the five elements by his consciousness.
(74) And standing very firm at this stage, sees my real nature which is without birth, by his own
intuitive vision.
(75) And knows me like this to be beyond the beginning as the great Lord of all the worlds,
(76) You should consider him to be like the 'Parees' (magic stone) among stones or the nectar among
all the juices and among the human beings as my own reflection.
(77) He is the walking Sun of knowledge. His limbs are like the sprouts of happi-ness, and his being
a human is just a mirage, a term used for ordinary reference.
(78) My dear, even if a diamond falls in various cakes of camphor, it does not dissolve in water, if
water is sprinkled on the comphor.
(79) Similarly even if he is in the mortal world, and outwardly he is an ordinary man, all the
disturbances of Prakriti, the Nature are not for him.
(80) Just as serpents themselves run away from sandalwood trees which are burning, sins run away
from him of their own accord and he knows me as I am and all his mental projections avoid him.
(81) If there is a question in your mind, as to how my reality is to be known, and how my
