manifestations are to be recognised, please listen.
बुि ानमसंमोह मा स यं दमः शमः|
सुखं दुःखं भवोऽभावो भयं चाभयमेव च
अिहंसा समता तुि तपो दानं यशोऽयशः|
भवि त भावा भूतानां म एव पृथि वधाः
From me only, various manifestations of my power are created, which are, intellect, knowledge,
non-confusion, forgiveness, truth, self-control as to action, self-control as to mind, happiness, sorrow,
existence, non-existence, fear, fearlessness, non-violence, equality, contentment, penance, charity,
fame, lack of fame, etc. (4,5)
(82) These manifestations are taking certain qualities adaptable to the conditions in the respective
forms and are spread throughout the three worlds.
(83) Intellect is the first of these. Then come pure knowledge, absence of confusion, forbearance,
forgiveness and truth.
(84) Then come self-control of action and mind as also the happiness and sorrow which is evident in
the world and question of to be and not to be. These are also among my manifestations.
(85) My dear, there are also fear and fearlessness, non-violence and equality, and O, son of Pandu,
there are also the sense of satisfaction, penance and what is called as charity.
(86) My dear, fame and defamation etc. are evident everywhere which are born from me only in the
various beings.
(87) Just as there are many beings, so consider that these manifestations are also many. Some of them
are born out of knowledge about me and some are born out of ignorance about me.
88) It is like the light and the darkness which are caused by the sun only, and there is light when the
sun rises and darkness when the sun sets.
(89) And it is result of the past karma of these beings that they know me or do not know me, and
therefore, there is variation in the degree of manifestation.
(90) O the son of Pandu, please know that all the creation of these beings is related to and involved
in my existence.
(91) Now I will further tell you the guardians of all this creation in whose obeisance, all people
live. These are eleven manifestations.
