Yoga, about which there is no doubt. (7)
(104) O the husband of Subhadra! Thus these are my various expressions (like intellect, knowledge
etc. (vide verse 5 above) and my manifestations (like sages etc.) by whom the whole world is
permeated.
(105) Therefore, there is nothing except me, from the God Brahma to the tiny ant.
(106) He who really comprehends this, is a man whose knowledge has awakened and, therefore, he
does not see the bad dream of distinctions about what is the best and what is the worst.
(107) By his Yogic visions, he sees me, my manifestations and the persons concerned as one single
existence.
(108) And doubtlessly by this great yoga he is merged by his mind into my real nature. He is no
doubt, pure in all respect. (body, mind and soul).
(109) O, the man with great crown! One who worships me like this, with a vision which does not
make distinction in any manner, is the place where I reside.
(110) Therefore, in the Yoga of devotion of this quality of undivided consciousness, there is no
defect whatsoever without any doubt, and even if he dies while the study of this Yoga is
incomplete, it is still bettered in the next birth, about which I have told you in the sixth chapter.
(111) Now, if there is a thought in your mind to ask what is the nature of this state of unity, please
listen. I will tell you.
अहं सव य पभवो म ः सव पवतते|
इित म वा भज ते मां बुधा भावसमि वताः
I am the beginning of all and all comes into existence from me only. The wise men who have faith
in me, worship me with this knowledge. (8)
(112) O Pandava, so, I am the place of birth of all these, and by my power only, all these are
sustained.
(113) Water is the only place where many waves are created in a row, and water is the refuge to
these waves and the very body and life of these waves is water only.
(114) Just as the waves are having water only everywhere; likewise, there is nothing except me in
this universe.
(115) Those knowing me to be all - pervading like this, worship me with real faith;
