(116) By identifying with me all the things like the space, time and the situation, they live in me like
wind which is totally in the sky.
(117) They hold me within their heart as all - pervading in the world and having self- knowledge,
they live freely in all the three worlds.
(118) To consider every being as God, is the real Yoga of my devotion; please know this definitely.
मि च ा म तपाणा बोधय तः पर परम्|
कथय त मां िन यं तु यि त च रमि त च
They give their mind to me, they infuse me in their breath, they tell my stories to each other, and
by mutually instructing each other are interested and happy in my devotion. (9)
(119) They have become one with me by their mind, become peaceful in their Pranas by me, and
being in love with the understanding of my reality, forgot to be born and to die.
(120) Being intoxicated by the ecstacy of self-knowledge they dance with joy in the dialogue about
me, and exchange with each other nothing but joy.
(121) Their state is like waves of two lakes meeting each other, which are so mingled that they find
home in other waves only.
(122) Similarly when two such devotees meet, the waves of each man's joy are dovetailed and
wrapped with other's joy; and enlightenment shows off enlightenment by means of enlightenment
only.
(123) That is just like the Sun waving the other Sun with its light, or the Moon embracing the other
Moon or two equal streams having a confluence.
(124) When such devotees meet, the meeting is like Prayaga (where three rivers meet) of common
interest and unity of nature, and on that flow, there is a continuous chain of ripples of Sattwa
quality; thus the devotees become the deities of main worship on the city-square of dialogue.
(125) Being overwhelmed by the bliss of self knowledge, the devotees start running out of their body
consciousness, and shout out of joy my name loudly.
(126) They openly shout my name like thundering clouds in the presence of all people, which being a
Mantra, is normally to be given by a Guru in the secret.
(127) Just as a bud of lotus cannot keep to itself its fragrance, when it is blossomed into a flower,
and gives it to all from the king to the poorest man;
(128) Similarly they declare my greatness for the benefit of the whole universe, and forget to
