continue their speech because of ecstacy and being still, they are dissolved into forgetfulness of
their body and soul.
(129) They are not aware of whether it is day or night being engrossed by the flood of love towards
me. Those who have thus saturated their minds with the joy of being united with my Reality –
तेषां सततयु ानां भजतां पीितपूवकम्|
ददािम बुि योगं तं येन मामुपयाि त ते
To such devotees who worship me with love, being always united with me, I bestow the gift of
intelligence, by which they reach me intimately. (10)
(130) Then, O Arjuna, they have already got with them what is meant to be given to them as our
grace.
(131) Because when we see the path by which they are progressing, the heaven and liberation
become lower aims to be reached by indirect by-roads.
(32) So we have planned to give them back that love with which their heart is full, but already it is
possessed by them and, therefore, it is said that they only give me credit of giving.
(133) Now my only job remains to keep the love always increasing and that it is not decreased or
destroyed by lapse of time.
(134, 135) O Arjuna, the wielder of a great crown, just as a loving mother pulled by the thread of
love for her child runs after it and gives whatever toy it fancies for, similarly I go on supplying
my devotees those things by which their worship would become more intense.
(136) I am really interested to give them everything without exception, those things by which they
will easily reach me.
(137) My dear, just as my devotee has love for me, I also have total respect for his loyalty, because
any calamity which befalls them is actually a calamity on our home!
(138) You see, we employ both the paths of reaching heaven or of attaining liberation for their
benefit and service. Not only this, we give our own self together with Goddess Laxmi, for their
welfare.
(139) But beyond the body, there is an eternally fresh, blissful joy, which we have kept reserved for
our loving devotees.
(140) And O the wielder of great crown, we bring these devotees to this state, for our own joy, but
these are things which cannot be told in words.
