(150) You are the supreme deity worshipped by three gods, you are the twenty-fifth Principle of
Sankhya-Philosophers, called the "Purusha" and you are divinely beyond the existence of Prakriti.
(151) You are the eternally existent, beginningless overlord, who cannot be confined to or bound by
the limitations of birth. We have now understood that you are like this.
(152) You are the holder of the strings which govern the past, present and the future. You are the
deity presiding over the state of Jeeva, and I have fully understood that you are the great mother of
the nebulous universe which is Brahman.
आह वामृषयः सव देविषनारद तथा|
अिसतो देवलो यासः वयं चैव बवीिष मे
You are described as such by many sages, the divine sage Narada, and Asita, Devala, Vyasa, and
you are also telling me the same thing. (13)
(153) This is also proved to be true because you have been described similarly by ancient sages.
(154) But it is only now that I am realizing the truth of that description and this is also because of
your grace, O God!
(155) Otherwise the sage Narada used to sing in praise about you in this way frequently when he
came to us, but because we did not realise the significance of his words, we could enjoy only the
music.
(156) My Lord, in a town where all are blind, how can they see the Sun? They can only bask in the
warm rays.
(157) Similarly when Narada used to sing his song full of spiritual meaning, we could heartily enjoy
the melodious music only, expressed in the mood of the theme but could not understand anything
else.
(158) We had listened to the description of your real nature, as you are describing just now, but alas!
Our minds were full of worldly desires and were polluted.
(159) That was so forceful a poison that the sweetest spiritual teaching was bitter to our ears and the
sense-objects though really bitter, used to taste sweet.
(160) But why talk of others? Even the godly great sage Vyasa used to come to our home and he also
described everything about you in this way.
(161) But it was like the gem Chintamani which is not recognised in the darkness of night and
neglected, which however came to be known as real gem, when it is day-time.
