(162) Similarly the description given by Vyasa and others were as if the mines of spiritual jewels,
but because you, the sun were not there, they were discredited.
सवमेतX¥तं म ये य मां वदिस क
े शव|
न िह ते भगवन् यि ं िवदुदवा न दानवाः
O Keshava, I surely recognise as true what you are telling me. Neither the gods nor the demons
could know your exact nature, (14)
(163) And now the rays of the Sun, in the form of your statements are spread and the lack of
recognition about this as well as the various paths of liberation which were described in the past
by the sages, is removed.
(164) Really speaking, their teachings were as if, seeds of knowledge, and they were sown in the
deep land of our hearts, but because there was no water of your grace, the seeds did not sprout
and did not grow fruit of mutual identity of description.
(165) O Lord, the teaching of various sages like Narada were like rivers, and being filled by them, I
have now become the ocean of happiness of this oneness.
(166) O my Guru, whatever spiritual merits I have earned during this life, are not capable to afford
that happiness for me which you have given.
(167) Because, though I have listened to your greatness from these elders many times, I could not
understand anything so long as your grace, your personal blessing, was not received.
(168) So, it can be said that if there is good luck, whatever undertaking we venture for, becomes
successful and similarly, only by the grace of Guru, whatever we listen to or read can become
fruitful.
(169) For example, the gardener takes all the trouble to sprinkle water on the plant, throughout all
the seasons, but the trees bear flowers or fruit only when the Vasanta (the spring) season comes
along.
(170) Sir, when the disease like typhoid is cured, normal taste is restored and it is only when the
ailment ceases to be, that there is good health in the body.
(171) Only when the life force comes and functions in them, the sense organs, the speech, and the
vital breath become fulfilled in their purpose of existence.
(172) Similarly that literature which we have deeply studied and the Yogic practice that we have
undertaken can be said to have been achieved only when the Guru is kind to bless us.
