(173) In this way, Arjuna, becoming enthralled by the self-experience, began to dance like a puppet
and having no inhibition started to say again and again, "O God! Yes! Yes! Now I fully realize!"
(174) O Lord Shrikrishna, who are the presiding Lord of Liberation, I have become thrice convinced
that even the intellect of all the gods and demons will not be able to grasp the Reality of your
being.
(175) And I have definitely realized that the man who, without the benefit of your kind personal
teaching, will try to understand the essential wisdom will surely be disappointed.
वयमेवा मना मानं वे थ वं पु षो म|
भूतभावन भूतेश देवदेव जग पते
O Purushottama, the creator of all the elements, the God of all the beings, the God of the gods and
the master of the universe, only you know your own nature. (15)
(176) Just as the sky itself knows how much its expanse is; and only the earth knows how much solid
it is!
(177) Similarly O, the husband of Laxmi, only you yourself can understand the totality of your vast
power. The other contenders like Vedas simply boast about their intellect.
(178) Sir, who is able to defeat the mind in speed, catch wind in embrace or jump beyond the
original, primordial, great void?
(179) Similarly in the case of your totality, its knowledge is not possible to be gained by anybody,
but it is for you only to know your Self.
(180) Sir, you can know yourself and you can also bless others with that under-standing. Therefore
please, do tell me at least once what I am eager to know, (figuratively, Arjuna, asks the Lord to
wipe the sweat off the forehead of his eagerness!)
(181) I have heard that you are the creator of, as also the root cause for the existence of all beings.
You are the lion who destroys the elephant of delusion about the concept of universe. You are the
object of worship of all the gods and deities and you are the Lord of the world.
(182) Considering your greatness I must say that we are not fit even to stand before you, but if being
inhibited by this thought, we become hesitant and afraid to request you for teaching us about self-
knowledge, then I am at a loss, because there is no other way to gain this knowledge.
(183) What is the use of all the rivers and the vast sea-all full of water, to a Chataka bird? It can
have water only when the clouds will bless with some raindrops! All seas are as if dry for it!
