of death drank it and even by drinking it, in the cosmic day of Lord Brahma, there are as many as
fourteen Indras born and dead.
(193) That nectar is only a certain kind of liquid which has been obtained from the ocean of milk and
which is in vain praised to be ''Amrit" for giving the quality of deathlessness, a false claim, and
its sweetness is not adequate to be compared with your speech.
(194) If that trifle of a liquid is so much honoured, then what can be said about the great nectar
which is here?
(195) Which is available ready-made, without instilling the mountain Mandara and without churning
the ocean of milk and is naturally eternal.
(196) It is neither liquid nor solid. It has neither taste nor smell, and anyone can get it in a moment by
simply remembering it.
(197) As soon as one listens to it, the whole worldly life becomes tasteless, and eternity comes and
remains totally united to us.
(198) When the language about birth and death becomes non-existent and the great joy of self-
experience starts increasing inside as well as outside–
(199) And if this highest nectar is luckily available to be enjoyed by me and if it transforms the
Jeeva into Atman and if you are feeding me with this now, I cannot say enough to it.
(200) O Lord, even your name is sweet to us. Over and above that, you meet us in person, and
intimacy is also developed. Furthermore you are talking with us with a heart full of joy!
(201) So my Lord, how can I compare this great bliss with anything? My heart is so full of
contentment and joy, that it is not possible to describe it in words. Only one thing I understand.
This great nectar-like speech should be repeated by you personally.
(202) Now, does the Sun become stale? Does fire become unclean? Or is the water of Ganges ever
unbathed?
(203) What you have told by your own mouth is like the divine sound becoming crystalised into a
form and we are as if enjoying the fragrance of the flowers of sandal-wood.
(204) Listening to this talk of Arjuna, Shrikrishna started to nod with happiness and said to himself-
"This Arjuna has now become a land of plantation worth sowing the devotion and knowledge in
it".
(205) Thus in the mood of great love of acceptance of Arjuna as a disciple, Shrikrishna started to
say something by somehow containing his ecstacy, to which please listen-
