दाणां शंकर ाि म िव ेशो य र साम्|
वसूनां पावक ाि म मे ः िशख रणामहम्
I am Shankara among the eleven Rudras, I am the Kubera, the God of wealth among the angels and
Rakshasas, I am fire the purifier among the "Vasu-" deities, belonging to the element of earth, and
among the things having high peaks (i.e. mountains) I am Meru. (23)
(225) Amongst all the fire angels who destroy and who are called Rudras, I am Lord Shankara who
is the enemy of love-god Cupid, about which fact, do not have any doubt.
(226) Among the demons and higher ranks of nature spirits called Yakshas I am the rich friend of the
Lord Shambhu (Shankaras's other name) who is Kubera- so said Ananta (Shri Krishna).
(227) Know me to be the purifying fire amongst the eight Angels of Earth (Vasus), and amongst the
high-peaked mountains, I am Meru.
पुरोधसां च मु यं मां िवि पाथ बृह पितम्|
सेनानीनामहं क
ं दः सरसामि म सागरः
महष णां भृगुरहं िगराम येकम रम्|
य ानां जपय ोऽि म थावराणां िहमालयः
O Partha, among the priests I am the chief, Brihaspati; Skanda among the army chiefs, and sea
among the great water reservoirs. I am Bhrugu among the greater sages, and I am the one letter Om
among the various speeches. Among Yadnyas I am the Japa, and Himalaya among the heavy inert
bodies (24,25).
(228) I am Brihaspati who is the origin of omniscience and who is the friend of Indra, (who
occupies the throne of heaven and who is the basic sources of omnipotence and the Chief of all
priest).
(229) I am Skanda, who is the chief amongst all the chiefs of all armies, who is of supreme
intelligence and who was born of the divine creative power of Hara (Shiva), borne by fire and
brought up by Krittikas.
(230) Among all the bodies of water, I am the sea and Bhrugu, the great sage renowned for his
penance.
(231) [Then the "embodid love" form Vaikuntha- (Krishna) further said] ‘‘I am the one syllable Om,
which is the abode where Truth dances out of Joy.
(232) Among all the sacrifices in this world, I am the practice of Japa, repetition of the divine name,
