िपतॄणामयमा चाि म यमः संयमतामहम्
I am the Vajra among all the weapons, and Kamadhenu among the cows; I am Kandarpa, the sex
god who is the progenitor and I am Wasuki of all the serpents. Among the cobras I am Ananta and
Varuna, among the deities presiding over water. I am Aryama amongst all the Pitrus and Yama the
God who is the chief controller of beings. (28,29)
(240) O the wielder of the great bow! I am Vajra among all the weapons, which is in the hand of
Indra, (who has performed hundreds of sacrifices).
(241) Vishwaksena (Lord Shrikrishna) said- "I am Kamadhenu among all the cows and ‘Desire’
among all the progenitors, which you should know.
(242) O, the son of Kunti, I am Wasuki who is the chief of the families of serpents and the cobra
called Ananta among all the families of cobras.
(243) Ananta (Lord Shrikrishna) further said - "I am Varuna, the spouse of the goddess of the west
direction, who is the presiding God of aquatic animals.
(244) Amongst all the ancesters I am the deity of Pitrus, called Aryaman.
(245, 246) The Atmarama, the husband of Ram¢(Laxmi) said "Among the dispensers
of the Laws of action and its results, who scribe down the good and
bad actions of all the world, who know the true inner nature of all
beings and lay down the details of the results of all their actions
according to their quality, I am God Yama, who is the chief and who
is the 'Dharma' or the embodiment of governing power, and witness to
all actions.
प हाद ाि म दै यानां कालः कलयतामहम्|
मृगाणां च मृगे दोऽहं वैनतेय पि णाम्
Among the Daityas (sons of Diti, the wife of Kashyapa) who are called demons, I am Pralhad and
I am the Time among those who devour everything. In animals I am the Lion, the king of animals and
Eagle (the son of Vinata, wife of Kashyapa) among the birds. (30)
(247) Please see! I am Pralhad in the family of demons and therefore he was not affected by the
demonic vices.
(248) Gopala said -"I am the killer 'Time' amongst all those who devour, and know that I am the
