अहमेवा यः कालो धाताहं िव तोमुखः
O Arjuna, I am the beginning, the end and the existence of creation. Among all sciences I am the
spiritual science. I am the discussion of those who discuss and I am A of the letters and in the
compound words am Dwandwa, the compound word, both the names of which are of equal rank. I am
the Time which has no end. I am the creator, the god with his faces everywhere in the universe.
(23,24)
(259) If one wishes to tie together all the stars, it is easy only if the cloth of the sky is lifted and tied
into a sack's shape.
(260) If one wishes to count the specks of dust in the earth, it is better to pick up
the whole earth in our embrace. Similarly if one wishes to see all my manifestations, it will be
necessary to know 'Me' only.
(261) It is like holding the root of a tree and lift it if one wishes to hold the branches with flowers
and fruits, all at a time.
(262) So, if it is desired to know without exception all my manifestations, it is necessary that one
should know my faultless Reality only.
(263) Otherwise, how far are you going to listen to all my manifestations which are numberless? So,
O intelligent Arjuna! You should thoroughly know me only.
(264) O the wielder of a great crown, I am the whole and everything in the creation, just as there are
only threads thoughtout a piece of cloth.
(265) If you can understand me in this total, all pervasive nature, where is the need to see the
different manifestations? But let it be, because you are not brave enough for it.
(266) Since you have asked for my manifestations, please, listen to these, O, the husband of
Subhadra! I am the spiritual science among all the sciences which is our subject at present.
(267) O! I am the discussion of those who talk, which does not come to conclusion by agreement
among all the scriptures and sciences.
(268) That increases if one tries to end it, and listeners are provoked to counter-argue. I am that
discussion.
(269) Govinda said, ‘‘I am the argument of the expounders, and I am A of the alphabets.
(270) Please know that I am the Dwandwa among the compound words, and I am the 'time' which
eats everything from the Brahma to the tiny mosquito.
