(300) O, the wielder of great bow! Perhaps the drops of rain water can be counted, or the sprouts of
grass growing all over the earth can be counted,
(301) Just as the waves of the sea cannot be measured, similarly the symbolic manifestations of mine
cannot the measured.
(302) O Arjuna, I have told just, some seventy five of my manifestations to you which, I think, is only
an indication.
(303) There is really no limit to the expanse of my manifestations. Therefore, how far are you going
to ask me? And how far can I tell you?
(304) So, I will in one sentense tell you my real nature, my secret. I am the seed which sprouts and
grows as all the beings.
(305) Therefore, you should not make a distinction between small and big, should discard the sense
of higher and lower in regard to anything and should see everything as me only.
(306) Now, even after all this enumeration, please listen to the very common sign by which, O
Arjuna, you will know me that as my manifestation.
य द् िवभूतम स वं शीमदूिजतमेव च|
त देवावग छ वं मम तेज ऽशसंभवम्
Whatever being is having special "Presence" in it, and is glorious and full of energy, you would
understand that to be born with my own partial energy. (41)
(307) Whenever there are riches coupled with compassion in one 'being', O Dhananjaya, that, you
should know to be my manifestation.
अथवा बहनैतेन िक ातेन तवाजुन|
िव याहिमदं क
ृ नमेकांशेन ि थतो जगत्
Or, O Arjuna, what will you gain by knowing all these details? I stand holding this entire universe
by a fraction of my Being - (42)
(308) My dear, the Sun is only one in the sky but its light spreads throughout the three worlds.
Similarly all the peoples obey the orders of Him (the Lord Shrikrishna Himself) alone.
(309) Do not make the mistake of calling Him one single person, and do not use the term "O poor"
about him. Is all the glory inherent in the Divine Kmadhenu, walking bodily with her everywhere?
(310) Whoever demands anything of her she delivers continously and gives it to him. Similarly all
