the glories of the universe are established and are inherent in Him.
(311) There is only one important recognizing quality of my manifestation, and that is, that all the
world bows before his orders. If this is seen, know that he is my incarnation.
(312) And it is not right to distinctly say that one manifestation is more important and the other is
ordinary, because I am myself this whole universe.
(313) Why should one conceive the difference between two manifestations as an ordinary one and
extraordinary one, and thus pollute one's intellect with the divisive thinking?
(314) For example, why should we churn the ghee further? Or why should we boil nectar and reduce
it to decoction half its measure? Or are there two sides to the wind as left side and right side?
(315) We will simply lose our eyesight if we try to see what is front side and what is the backside of
the Sun. Similarly there is no such thing as common or uncommon in my real nature.
(316) So, O the husband of Subhadra, how far are you going to size up my unlimited existence
through counting my each and every manifestation like this? Therefore enough with your efforts to
know me in this way.
(317) Now know that I am occupying this whole world only by a fraction of my Real nature and
worship me with this comprehension of equanimity, by dropping out the divisive concept.
(318) (Saint Dhyaneshwar says) - In this way Lord Shrikrishna, who is benevolent like the season of
Spring to the Garden of saints and who is the final solitude of desireless devotees, and who is the
supremely glorious Being, said to Arjuna.
(319) Thereupon Arjuna said- "My Lord, you have no doubt taught me this most secret thing, that we
should drop the divisive concept.
(320) But has the Sun to teach people - "O, people, you should first discard this darkness!"? If we
say that your advice is as absurd as this, my words will be taken to be rather insulting.
(321) Because, as soon as one either listens to your sacred name by one's ears or utters it by one's
mouth, the duality suddenly abandons one's mind and runs away.
(322) When we are fortunate enough to have you-as the virtually supreme Brahman, with all such
great power of dissipating duality, as a gift given by destiny, who will ever see any duality?
(323) My Lord! Will there by any experiencing of warmth when one enters into the inner
"Shrineroom" of the moon? But in the stride of your own great style, you are saying something to
this effect."
