(324) At that time the Lord being satisfied, embraced Arjuna soulfully with love and said- "Arjuna,
do not be annoyed with what we said."
(325) In order to ascertain whether you have understood the fact that the various manifestations are
like these, we told you this long story of varieties, from the point of view of analysis.
(326) Which was just an outward expression, and it is now certain that these manifestations are now
understood by you in the right spirit."
(327) Upon this Arjuna said- "That is for the Lord Himself to know, with what view you have said
so; but I for myself see that the whole universe is filled with you only."
(328) Sanjaya here said to the king Dhrutarashtra, "O king! The son of Pandu really experienced this
unity himself!" But even hearing these words Dhritarashtra was as quiet as ever.
(329) Being pathetic about this stolid insensitivity, Sanjaya said to himself secretly- "Is it not a
wonder that one throwns away such a great boon of happiness which is luckily gained? I thought
that this king may perhaps be wise in his inner intellect, but no! He is blind inwardly also!"
(330) But (so says Dnyneshwara-) let it be. Arjuna was now having a deeper yearning for his own
welfare in spiritual understanding because he was becoming more bold!
(331) He said, "My Lord, there is now a great hopeful aspiration to witness with my eyes that
experience of unity which is in my heart, quite evidently manifest in the outer visible world."
Saint Dnyaneshwar says-
(332) Arjuna was very fortunate, in that, he desired to see the whole universe by his own eyes.
(333) Arjuna was really a branch of the Kalpataru, (the divine wish-tree)! It was, therefore, not
possible that he would be fruitless. Whatever was said by him was being fulfilled by the Lord
Shrikrishna.
(334) Arjuna, the hero with a great crown, was lucky to have the great spiritual teacher (Shri
Krishna) who had (in the ancient days) became poison himself for his devotee Pralhada and
saved him.
(335) Therefore, I shall tell you in the next chapter, in what words Arjuna set about to request the
Lord to show him the totality of his universal form." - thus Said Dnyanadeva, the disciple of
Nivruttinatha.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे िवभूितयोगो नाम दशमोऽ यायः
