(126) That great voice thundered in both the armies in such a way that its echo could not be
contained anywhere.
(127) Inspired more by the echo, the great Bheeshma blew his divine conch with greater force.
(128) When his roaring and the resounding of the conch were mixed with each other, it was felt, as if
the three worlds were deafened, or as if the whole sky fell down with a great noise.
(129) There was thundering sound in the sky, the ocean became turbulent and the greatly disturbed
nature, with all the creatures, began to tremble.
(130) While the great harangue was echoing repeatedly in the caves of the mountains far away, there
began the great beating and sounding of war-drums.
ततः शंखा भेय पणवानकगोमुखाः|
सहसैवा यह य त स श द तुमुलोऽभवत्
Then conches, Kettledrums, tabors, drums, and trumpets suddenly blared forth and their noise was
tumultuous (13)
(131) When the tumult of the war-drums began with great deafening and terrifying sound, the great
leading warriors felt that, it was the time of total destruction.
(132) What to say about cowards? Those who were not so brave were thrown off-balance! One can
even say that the God of death was also so much afraid that he dared not stay steady.
(133) The battle-drums like bheri, Nishana, mandala, conch, Kahala, horns, cymbals and others,
created terrific sound which was accompanied and mixed with the war-cries of the great fighters.
(134) Some of the fighters bet their arms by their hands, patting them with pride
and some began to shout angrily while the great wild elephants became uncontrollable.
(135) The effect of this sound was that some were dead while standing, many brave soldiers gritted
their teeth with fear and those who were swearing earlier were also silent with fearful shivering!
(136) Even the God Brahma became afraid by listening to the tumult of the war-gongs and the gods
began to say “Is the time of total annihilation really at hand!”
ततः ैतैहयैयु े महित य दने ि थतौ|
माधवः पा डव ैव िद यौ शंखौ पद मतुः
पा चज यं षीक
े शो देवद ं धनंजयः|
