belonging to me.
(52) Over and above, I was seeing a bad dream in which I was saying that I would kill them and thus
commit a sin, but, O, my master! You have awakened me.
(53) O My Lord, the husband of Goddess Laxmi! I had left the real town and was entering into a
fictitious town of unreal beings, and being thirsty I was drinking the water from mirage.
(54) Even though the serpent was only a toy made of cloth, I was having pangs of pain as if smitten
by a real one, and was on the point of dying, but you have the credit of saving me.
(55) O My Lord, you have saved me from killing myself, by drowning in the sea of ignorance, which
is like stopping a lion who was about to jump into a well, thinking his reflection in the water to
be another lion who was against him.
(56) Otherwise, my Lord, I was determined to let such a miracle happen that all the seven seas
should merge together and should be turbulent beyond measure! And–
(57) Even if the whole world should be drowned the sky should fall down; but there should be no
fight with kith and kin.
(58) With such pull of my pride, I had plunged myself in the waters of adamant attitude, and it was
good that you were near me, otherwise who would have taken me out?
(59) When ‘‘I’’ am nothing, I thought that something is existing when actually nothing was there and I
gave some family name to what was not existing at all. I was really totally mad, but you have
saved me.
(60) In the past you had saved us from the lacquer house which was on fire. At that time all the
danger was to the physical body only but now this second fire was dangerous even to my soul.
(61) My adamant attitude was like the demon Hiranyaksha. My intellect is like the earth. This earth
is usurped by that Hiranyaksha and he went through the opening which was the sea of confusion.
(62) Then by the power of knowledge about you I became conscious about who I am. Here, you have
had to become Varaaha (Pig) by all your power.
(63) You have done so much that it is not possible to describe all your helpful actions by my one
tongue. But one thing I can say. You have given your five vital breaths to me.
(64) My Lord, all that merit cannot go waste. You have become really very successful because you
have dispelled my delusion totally.
(65,66) How can the man who is the object of benediction by your eyes which are like lotuses in the
