(68) So, what wonder is there if my confusion, my false concept, is destroyed! I swear by your feet
that I am really saved.
भवा ययौ िह भूतानां शुतौ िव तरशो मया|
व ः कमलपता माहा यमिप चा ययम्
I have also listened from you the details of the process of creation of all things and their
dissolution. O the God with eyes like the Lotus-petals! I have also heard you about your endless
greatness. (2)
(69) O, The great God with eyes like Lotus, and bright like crores of Suns, today I have heard from
you –
(70) How these beings are created, and how they end. That process of Prakriti is explained by you,
my Lord.
(71) And you have discarded that Prakriti and showed me the state of Purusha, the glory of whom is
taken as a garment by Vedas to cover themselves.
(72) This whole developments of words and the jewels of the doctrines of religion which are
produced by that ocean of words is the result of the light of your feet.
(73) You have explained and shown to me your supremacy which is the sole aim of all the paths of
penance, and which can be properly appreciated only through self-realization.
(74) It is like our becoming able to look at the disc of the Sun when clouds are dissipated, or as the
clear water is seen when the moss is removed from its surface.
(75) Or like the sandalwood tree becoming visible and approchable when the serpents around its
trunk are taken away, or the heap of coins becoming available when the guardian ghost has gone
away.
(76) Similarly the Prakriti was an impediment which you, the Lord, has displaced and made the
Absolute principle, the Brahman, readily knowable for my intellect.
(77) Therefore, I have become somewhat sure about this, but O Lord, my mind has desire for
something more.
(78) And if we hesitate from asking you about it due to shyness, is there any other source known to
us?
(79) If fish is feeling abashed to trouble the water which is its total support, or if the child refuses to
suck milk from its mother's breast, O Shri Hari, is there any other source of living for it?
