(90) I am not knowing it. If you will ask me why I am not sure, I will ask, whether the person who is
suffering can know the diagnosis of the disease?
(91) And being overpowered by the desire the person himself forgets his own capacity just as a
thirsty person thinks that even an ocean is not sufficient to quench his thirst.
(92) Being thus affected by my eagerness, I cannot keep my mind steady. Therefore, as the mother
knows the need and the capacity of the child,
(93) Like that mother, O Shri Janardhana, verify my capacity and then think of showing me the
universal form.
(94) So, my Lord, please give me this much by being kind. Otherwise, please tell me that it is not
possible; because what is the use of singing melodiously in front of a deaf person?
(95) Sir, just in order to quench the thirst of one bird Chataka, the cloud pours rain all over the earth-
is it not? But if it rains on rocks, it is futile.
(96) The nectar benefits the bird Chakora; but is it denied to others by the moon on purpose? Even
then, if one has no eyes, the moonlight is simply wasted on him.
(97) Therefore, I have trust that you will show me the universal form because you are equally a
matter of wonder for both the wise and the ignorant.
(98) We know that your generosity is quite different. You never discriminate between worthy and
unworthy whom you give anything. The most precious 'liberation', which is the most sacred, you
have given even to your enemies.
(99) No doubt, liberation is most difficult to attain; but even that serves your feet; and therefore, it
goes wherever you send it, just like a servant.
(100) You have given to Pootana, who came to kill you by breast-feeding you, that state of liberation
and joy which is equal to the state of the sages like Sanaka, etc.
(101) Sir, in the Rajasooya Sacrifice festival, consider how Shishupala insulted you hundred times
by using abusive language, in the presence of all the great personalities gathered there from all the
three worlds.
(102) You have given to that Shishupala, the eternal status in your vicinity and was the son of the
king Uttaanapada, desiring the high place of Dhruva, unmoving spot of the cosmos?
(103) He entered the forest only because he wanted to sit in the lap of his father, but you gave him a
place coveted even by the sun, the moon and other celestial bodies.
