(104) You are generous like this in giving everything to the sufferers; when Ajamila called his son
Narayana, you gave him your own state of freedom.
(105) O the generous god! You are even now wearing on your chest with pride the stigma of the foot
with which sage Bhrugu kicked you on that spot and even now you are not leaving the conch
which is the dead body of a demon who was your enemy.
(106) In this way, you are obliging even those who do try to harm you. You are kind even to those
who do not deserve. King Bali gave you in charity land covered by three steps but in turn you
became his door-keeper!
(107) The prostitute who was just calling out to her parrot as ‘Ram’ and was not worshiping you nor
was she listening to your name, but even on that flimsy excuse you gave her the divine joy of
staying in Vaikuntha.
(108) In this way you force upon some, the liberation, by taking into consideration some trifling of
good deed. How can you behave differently with me?
(109) Will the calves of Kamadhenu experience hunger for want of milk, when she fulfills all
desires of all who demand from her, just through giving her milk?
(110) Therefore, it is not probable that the Lord will not show me what I have requested for, but you
will please give me the capacity to see.
(111) O my Lord, if you think that my eyes are so good as to understand by seeing your universal
form, then please meet my request.
(112) When the husband of Subhadra started to request like this again and again, the emperor of six-
fold glory, Lord Shrikrishna could not wait any longer.
(113) He was the cloud of the nectar of kindness and Arjuna was like the rainy season which was
nearer; or he was cuckoo and Arjuna was spring time.
(114) Or, by seeing the full moon, the sea of milk has high tide; similarly Shrikrishna was doubly
enthusiastic!
(115) Then with the force of that enthusiasm, he nearly shouted with joy and said to Arjuna- "O
Partha! See my innumerable forms."
(116) The Pandava desired to see only one universal form but he was given the boon of the whole
existence impregnating the universal form.
(117) The generosity of God has no limits. Only the devotee should be ready to request. Then God
gives thousand times more, or even gives Himself.
