(118) That secret of all the secrets which was hidden from the two thousand eyes of the serpent
Shesha, in showing which even Vedas were deceived, and which was not revealed to Goddess
Laxmi also;
(119) Was now about to be revealed by Shrikrishna for the most fortunate Arjuna, in the most
dramatic way.
(120) He himself became the vast all-pervading Brahman, just like a man in a dream becomes
himself everything in that dream.
(121) He suddenly dissolved his body and removed the illusory screen of Maya, or he as if opened
the mine of Yogic powers.
(122) But, in the eagerness he did not remember to consider whether Arjuna would be able to see it.
He just spoke continuously, eager in his love for Arjuna, ‘‘See! See!’’
शी भगवानुवाच-
प य मे पाथ पािण शतशोऽथ सहसशः|
नानािवधािन िद यािन नानावणाक
ृ तीिन च
The Lord Said- O Partha, see my hundreds and thousands of forms, of various types and of
various divine colours and shapes. (5)
(123) The Lord Said, "Dear Arjuna, if I show you only that which you want to see, what merit is
there in it? Now you may see that all the world is contained in my Being!
(124) See for yourself, how many types and shapes there are in it. Some are thin, some fat, some
short, some tall, some broad, some straight while some are unlimited.
(125) Some are uncontrollable, some are meek, many are unstable and many others still. Some are
austere and some are compassionate. Some are very intelligent.
(126) Some of them are intoxicated, some are keenly aware, some are shallow, some are having
great depth. Some are generous, some are miserly, while some are angry.
(127) Some are peaceful, some are rightly proud, some are undisturbed, some are joyful, some are
loud in their talk while some are silent and some are mild.
(128) Some are desirous while some are having no lust; some are awake, some are sleepy, some are
satisfied, some are dissatisfied while some of them are cheerful.
(129) Some are armed, some are without arms, some are fearsome, and some are very much
