affectionate. Some are ghastly, some are strange looking. Some are in trance.
(130) Some are engrossed in procreating, some are taking care of their children with love while
some are angrily killing many people. Some are only witness-ing.
(131) Thus there are innumerable forms of various types, some of which are brightly dazzling, and
the colours of all are quite different from each other.
(132) Some appear as if they are made of heated gold, some are blond, and some are looking like
sky pasted all over by read lead.
(133) Some of them are so beautiful that they look like the whole world decorated with innumerable
rubies, while some are crimson like the colours in the east at the time of sunrise.
(134) Some are crystal-clear, some are like blue jewels, some are as black as soot, and some are
brilliant red.
(135) Some are bright yellow like gold, some are as dark as rain-clouds, some are having the
yellowish fair hue of golden champak, while some are simply lush green.
(136) Some are red like copper, some are as white as moon, some are of various colours. Please see
all these forms which are mine.
(137) As the colours of these forms are variegated, their figures are also of different shapes. Some
of them are so beautiful that even cupid would be abashed before them.
(138) Some of them are naturally very handsome, and the bodies of some are shining attractively.
Some are just like the store houses of cosmetics of goddess Laxmi, opened.
(139) Some have stout and fleshy limbs, and some are emaciated. Some are imposingly ugly with
monstrous shapes while some are having long necks, outsize heads, and some of them are mis-
shaped.
(140) O Arjuna, there is no end to these forms, if you go on looking at them and the wonder of it that
on the body of each and every manifestation, you will see all the world residing in a corner.
प यािद या वसूनुदानि नौ म त तथा|
बह य पूवािण प या यािण भारत
O Bharata, you can see here Adityas, Vasus, Rudras, the two Ashwinikumar, Maruts, and many
wonders which are not seen by you before. (6)
(141) Here in the wink of an eye, the whole series of Adityas are created, and in the closing of the
eyelids, they are being dissolved.
