(142) With the vapour of the Mouth, everything becomes inflamed and in that fire, there are groups
of Vasus, like Pavak (a kind of fire which purifies).
(143) When the eyebrows are knitted and joined together, you can see there the groups of Rudras
being born.
(144) When these eyebrows become somewhat mild, the life-giving gods like Ashwinikumar are
born, and O Pandav, the winds of the cosmos are coming out of the ears.
(145) In this way, in the playful living of one form, many gods and occult adepts are born and please
look! There are numberless such forms within my universal existence.
(146,147) Now you see by your own eyes all these forms to describe which even the Vedas were not
able and started stammering, to know which the life-span of time itself fell short and even God
the creator could not fathom their depth, and even the three Vedas have never heard about their
existence. Please enjoy this vision made possible by the greatest occult power.
इहैक थं जग क
ृ नं प या सचराचरम्|
मम देहे गुडाक
े श य चा य िम छिस
O the controller of sleep, look in this my body the whole world at one place with its animate and
inanimate things and also everything else which you desire to see. (7)
(148) O the crowned one! Look here the sprouts of worlds in the roots of the body hair of this Form
which are like grass- sprouts at the foot of the divine wish-tree.
(149) Just as there are dust particles flying about, visible in the shaft of light falling in a room from a
hole in the roof, there are worlds and worlds moving in and about the folds of limbs of this
universal form.
(150) Here can be seen the vast expanse of the universe and many more things beyond the universe
which you desire to see.
(151) And in this matter, there will be absolutely no difficulty, because you can comfortably see
everything in my body, according to your liking.
(152) The universal form of Shri Krishna said these words compassionately, but Arjuna did not
respond, as to whether he was seeing or not. He was simply silent.
(153) Doubting as to why he was quiet, Shrikrishna looked at him and saw that he was having all
eagerness imprinted on his face, just as before.
