दशयामास पाथाय परमं पमै रम्
Sanjay said "O His majesty, saying thus, Hari who is the God of the supreme Yoga, showed
Partha his supreme form of Almighty the Glorious! (9)
(165) Sanjaya said- "O the emperor governing the dynasty of Kurus, about one thing I always
wonder. Really who is more fortunate than goddess Laxmi in all the three worlds?
(166) Is there any other means to understand what is Self than the Vedas which only indicate It? Is
not the quality of servitude the best in Shesha, the divine serpent?
(167) Is there any other devotee equal to the Eagle who is always ready and bears the burden of
Vishnu all the twenty-four hours?
(168) But all those are left aside and these Pandavas have become quite a new group which has all
the love of Narayana concentrated in them.
(169) But among all the five, the Lord Shrikrishna has fallen in love for Arjuna, just as a lover is
mad for his loving woman.
(170) We do not know what good luck has benedicted Arjuna. Even a bird taught to speak does not
speak like this. Even a pet animal does not obey to this extent.
(171) And lucky are the eyes of Arjuna to completely enjoy the totality of absolute Brahman; see
how Lord ShriKrishna is alert to do everything Arjuna says.
(172) If Arjuna is angry, God silently remains docile. If Arjuna is annoyed, he somehow pleases
him. How wonderful it is that the God is just mad for him!
(173) Otherwise, Yogis like Shuka and others who have conquered the desire for sensual pleasures,
started praising this Krishna by describing his romantic play in the forest.
(174) O king, my mind is still wondering whether Lord Shrikrishna is the treasure of the Yogis
which is enjoyed by them only in the trance or is he just a servant of Partha!
(175) Sanjaya added - "Really, His Majesty, there is no wonder in this. One who is accepted by the
Lord Shrikrishna, definitely enjoys this great fortune!
(176) The king of gods said to Partha, "I shall give you that vision by which you can see the whole
universal form."
(177) As soon as these letters were uttered by the god, the darkness of ignorance began to be
dissipated.
