(178) They were not mere letters. They were the lights to see the empire of Brahman, and Shri
Krishna had actually kindled the flame of knowledge.
(179) Then the light of the divine vision shone and a shaft of knowledge shot forth. In this way the
God made manifest his total glory.
(180) In that great existence, the various incarnations of God looked like waves on a sea, and
compared to the rays of that brilliant form, the universe seemed to be a mirage.
(181) In this way, the master of Vaikuntha showed himself as the ever-existent, self-procreated
surface like a screen of cloth on which the picture of the animate and inanimate world becomes
projected.
(182) In the childhood, this Shripati had one day eaten some dust, and Yashoda held his hands in
anger.
(183) At that time, he, faking fear, showed his mother the fourteen worlds by opening his mouth to
prove that he had not eaten any dust.
(184) Similarly in the Madhuvan forest, he blessed Dhruva and by his conch touched the cheek of
that boy by which, immediately Dhruva started to speak very speedily, that which Vedas even
cannot know clearly.
(185) Similarly O the king of Kurus, Shri Hari gave his blessings to Dhananjaya, and the wonder is
that Arjuna forgot the word Maya.
(186) Then suddenly the light of the glory opened up by the great expanse of the universal form of the
god by which there was miracle everywhere and Arjuna's mind was totally drowned in the only
feeling of wonder.
(187) Just as in an ancient story, the sage Markandeya was alone swimming in the total deluge of
primordial waters up to the region of god Brahma, similarly Arjuna was just now swimming in
the flood of the universal form.
(188) He started exclaiming - "O! Here there was great expanse of sky! Who has taken it away and
where? Where has gone the whole creation of animate beings and inanimate things?
(189) The signs of directions have gone. It cannot be known what is up and what is down! The
whole physical world is dissolved like a dream when one awakes.
(190) Or just as in the brilliant light of the Sun, the Moon and the stars disappear, so it seems that the
universal form has swallowed the whole visible nature.
(191) He lost the quality of the mind, his intellect lost its balance and the outward flow of senses
