the Almighty they saw weapons in those hands which were so sharp that they
could cut through the lightning of the Time of Total Destruction.
(215) Arjuna saw that God himself was the body and the ornaments, hands and
weapons, the soul and the body, each one of these pairs and thus He had filled all
the universe by Himself.
(216) By the sharp firy Light of the rays of his luminosity, the stars were being
scorched and the flames of fire were trying to plunge into sea because the fire was
also roasted.
(217) Thus, Arjuna saw there innumerable hands of the God, which were as if
smeared with the fiercest poison called Kalkoot or serrated with the shafts of
brilliant Lightning, which were continuously brandishing weapons.
िद यमा या बरधरं िद यगंधानुलेपनम्|
सवा यमयं देवमन तं िव तोमुखम्
He was the God Ananta, having faces everywhere in the universe, who was wearing celestial
bright flowers and clothes, having smeared on his body bright and divine fragrant pastes and who was
full of all wonders. (11)
(218) As if afraid, Arjuna shifted his eyes from those weapons and started to look at the throat and
the crown of God, and he felt that the divine wish-trees must have grown from there.
(219) He saw God wearing beautiful fragrant flowers which were the primary places where self
knowledge is attained and where the goddess of Riches being tired of wandering throughout the
world comes to take rest.
(220) There was a bunch of flowers on the crown, and at many places on the head, there were
flowers tied together in bunch in the process of worship, while around and down from the neck,
there were good many garlands suspended.
(221) His golden apparel round his waist looked like the heaven wearing the light of the Sun, or the
mount Meru covered by sheets of gold.
(222) Like the God Mahadev, with his body covered by camphor, or mount Kailas smeared by
mercury, or the ocean of milk covered with white cloth.
(223) Or the sky was covered by unfolded moon-light. His body was thus smeared by liquid paste of
sandalwood.
