(224) That was the fiagrance which made light of the self more brilliant, the heat of bliss of Brahman
was cooled down, by it and the Vedas were made more fragrant like the Earth;
(225) That fragrance was used as a paste by unattachment, it was applied by cupid as anointment,
and nobody can measure its greatness.
(226) While looking at the beauty of each of the parts of the divine Being, Arjuna was so scared that
he could not decide whether the Almighty was sitting or standing or reclining.
(227) He saw by his open eyes everything like this as one great Image, and deciding not to look out,
when he closed his eyes, he saw the same scene inside.
(228) When after seeing unlimited faces before him he turned his back, he saw the same faces and
the hands and feet there also.
(229) There is no wonder that he saw such wondrous panorama when he looked, but see the
astonishing thing. He saw it even if he did not look.
(230) See the effect of the blessing given by the Lord Narayana. He occupied Arjuna and also
occupied the looking and the non-looking of Arjuna.
(231) So, as soon as Arjuna tried to escape the flood of astonishment at one spot, he was caught in
another ocean of surprise.
(232) And the Almighty God thus totally enveloped Arjuna by the feat of his becoming universal.
(233) Thus, being requested by Pandava to show him his universal form, the Almighty God himself
became that Universal being, which he was already, in fact.
(234) And the vision which was given by the master of Vaikuntha was not such which in seen by the
light of the lamp or the Sun and becomes defunct if eyes are closed.
(235) So, either with eyes open or closed, Arjuna had no alternative except seeing; and Sanjaya was
reporting this to the king (Dhrutarashtra) in Hastinapur city.
(236) Sanjaya said- "O, King, you may not care about all the details but you may only understand that
Partha saw the Universal form of God which was full of ornaments and which was having faces
all over the universe!
िदिव सूयसहस य भवे ुगपदुि थता|
यिदः भाः स शी सा या ास त य महा मनः
If in the heavens all the splendor of thousands of Suns were to shine at one time, perhaps, like that
