goose- pimples.
(247) At the onset of rainy season, the mountains have streams flowing down and then there are lush
green sprouts of grass all over them. Similarly his body was full of hair becoming straight due to
ecstacy.
(248) As the moon- stone (Chandrakant) melts by the touch of moon-rays, his body was full of drops
of sweat.
(249) He was nodding with inner joy, just as by the movement of blue-beetle in a closed lotus
flower, it slightly moves to and fro.
(250) As the particles of camphor start falling down, when the camphor- plant is being peeled,
similarly tears began to fall from his eyes.
(251) He became more turbulent with the waves of joy as a sea having high tide by the rise of Moon.
(252) In this way, all the eight Sattwic ecstacies expressed themselves competing with each other in
his body, and Arjuna, as if earned the kingdom of bliss of Brahman.
(253) But in a moment, he fell back upon the sense of duality, and looking here and there,
(254) turned towards Shrikrishna, bowed before him, and with folded hands, started to speak.
अजुन उवाच-
प यािम देवां तव देव देहे सवा तथा भूतिवशेषस घान्|
ब ाणमीशं कमलासन थमृष सवानुरगां िद यान्
My Lord, I am seeing in your body, all the gods as well as special groups of the various beings,
the Brahma, the Isha (Shankara) in a lotus posture, sages and the divine serpents. (15)
(255) Arjuna said, "My Lord! Victory to you! You have really much obliged us, because by your
grace, ordinary persons like me are able to see this universal form."
(256) And, O the great Lord, you have done a very good thing and I am also fully satisfied because
today I came to know that you are the sole support of this whole creation.
(257) My Lord, the groups of fourteen worlds are attached to your body like various groups of
animals roaming about on the mountain Meru.
(258, 259) My Lord, O Narayana, just as there are galaxies of stars in the sky or just as there are
many nests of birds in a big tree, similarly in this universal form of yours, I am seeing all the gods
