(272) I am trying to find out whether there is any particle where you are not, but I fail to see it
because you are everything.
(273) And these elements which are without number are contained, O Lord, within your body,
without leaving any space empty.
(274,275) When I started to find out from where you came, whether you are sitting or standing, who
is the mother who borne you in her womb, how great is your abode, of what real form you are,
and what is your age as also what is beyond you and what supports you basically,-
(276) I suddenly found out that you are your own support. You are not the product of anybody else
and you are self-evident and beginningless.
(277) You are neither standing nor sitting. You are neither tall, nor short. You are below you as well
as above you.
(278) My Lord, you yourself are your beauty, your youth, your back and belly.
(279) What more? O the limitless god, when I saw again and again, I saw that you are yourself
alone.
(280) But O my Lord, there is one thing wanting in your form. There is no beginning, no middle
portion nor the end.
(281) You are everywhere but the end and the beginning as well as the middle is not found. So, it is
definite that all these three are not here.
(282) In this way. O, My Lord! Omnipresent, unlimited supreme God, I have now seen you, who has
neither beginning middle nor end.
(283) My God, in only one all-pervading form of yours, all the various images are studded,
appearing as if you have donned so many multi-coloured clothes.
(284) Or, all these are like trees and creepers on the mountain of your universal form and they are
blossomed with the flowers and fruits of all the ornaments.
(285) Or you are like an ocean and all these are like waves moving on your surface, or you are a
large tree, with all the images looking like your flowers and fruits.
(286) Your universal form with all those images, looks like earth which is populated by so many
beings, or the vast sky studded with innumerable stars.
(287) O my Lord, such images in each of which the three worlds are born and dead, are looking like
