hair on your tremendous form.
(288) When I tried to see who you are who has manifested such expanse of this universal existence, I
found that here you are, my charioteer.
(289) And my dear Mukunda, I came to know that actually you are always like this- extraordinary,
unknowable, but only for the affectionate devotees you assume a small beautiful form.
(290) O, how that darkish body of four arms is beautiful, looking at which my eyes become cool by
satisfaction and, it is easy to embrace it by both my arms.
(291) O, the Universal God, is it true that only for the love of ordinary devotees like us, you take
such a beautiful form? Or is our sight by which we see you as a human figure to be blamed?
(292) Whatever it may be, my sight is now cleansed of all blemishes, and because you have given
me the divine sight, I could see properly your real greatness.
(293) But I have also fully recognised that this whole all-pervading form is your own expanded
nature, though actually you are sitting here on the yoke of my chariot, behind the crocodile-mouth
effigy in the front.
िकरीिटनं गिदनं चिकणं च तेजोरािशं सवतो दीि म तम्|
प यािम वां दुिनरी यं सम ताद् दी ानलाक ुितमपमेयम्
I am seeing you on all sides as brilliant as fire or Sun with their enhanced light, just like a
mountain of luminosity dazzling on all sides, while you are wearing crown, mace, the brilliant disc
and actually it is very difficult for me to look at you. (17)
(294) Is it not the same crown, you are wearing, O Shri Hari? But its brilliance and glory is quite
different this time.
(295) And here in the upper arm, is it not the same disc, you are brandishing as if to throw it,
speedily rotating? The sign of that disc, O Universal God, has not disappeared.
(296) On the other side, do I not recognise the mace? And the lower two arms are put forward to
hold the reins of my horses.
(297) And O, the Lord of the world, it is you sitting on my chariot, who has at the same moment as I
uttered my wish, assumed immediately and suddenly this vast universal appearance - this I have
definitely recognised.
(298) But this is quite beyond my capacity even to wonder! When I see this miraculous revelation,
my mind is simply terrorised.
