(299) My mind is not sure of whether this universal form is here in Reality or not. Sir, how can I
describe the strangeness of the effulgence of this apparition? This whole multitude of beings of
the world is kept confined within it!
(300) The luminosity of its sheen is so acute that the eyes of fire are scorched to coals, and the Sun
itself is becoming as tiny as a fire-fly.
(301) Sir, in the ocean of this tremendously brilliant light, the whole creation is as if drowned or the
sky is completely conquered by the lightning of the time of total destruction.
(302) Or the flames of the fire at the time of total destruction are thrashed and cut and used to build
elevated platform in the space. Even my divine sight is not capable to look at it.
(303) The cresendo of this lustrous glamour is so speedily increasing and its heat and conflagration
is so high that even my clairvoyant sight is becoming harassed.
(304) My Lord, I feel that the fire which destroys the three worlds at the time of total annihilation,
which was hidden in the third eye of Maharudra has suddenly come out as the eye has opened!
(305) And by the flames engulfing it, all the universe is being turned into coal by the hottest light;
(306) My God, it seems that in seeing you in such an extra-ordinary, immeasurably mountainous heat
and light, I have witnessed the miracle of miracles of my life- time. There seems no limit to your
vastness and brilliance.
वम रं परमं वेिदत यं वम य िव य परं िनधानम्|
वम ययः शा तधमगो ा सनातन वं पु षो मतो मे
You are the supreme Akshara (letter or Brahman the imperishable) to be understood. You are the
highest resort of this universe. You are imperishable, and the protector of eternal religion, and in my
opinion, you are the most ancient and eternal Purusha (18)
(307) O God, you are the one letter, which is beyond the three and half syllables of AUM, whose
location the Vedas are always trying to find, but in vain!
(308) You are the Primary source of all forms, and you are that principle which is not perishable,
which is secret, and has no waning, in which the whole universe is stored.
(309) You are the compassion of religion. You are always ready without any beginning, and you are
ever new, and I know that you are the thirty-seventh male principle.
अनािदम या तमन तवीयमन तबाहं शिशसूयनेतम्|
प यािम वां दी हताशव ं वतेजसा िव िमदं तप तम्
