I see you as having innumerable arms, unlimited power, with sun and moon as your eyes, and
mouth as a bright fire, with unknown beginning, the middle and the end in space and time, who are
heating this universe with your light (19)
(310) Your beginning, end and the central part of existence cannot be known. You are unlimited in
your own power. You have arms and feet everywhere in the universe. You are without measure.
(311) The Moon and the Sun are your eyes by which you show kindness as well as anger. With
somebody you are annoyed, and angrily looking at him with one eye, while you are bestowing
benediction on somebody else by the other eye.
(312) My Lord, I am seeing your divine omnipresent form, as a matter of fact. Your mouth is actually
the conflagration of the fires of final destruction.
(313) Your tongue is licking your teeth, and is moving about among them like flame of forest fire,
when it covers up mountains which devour everything coming in their way.
(314) By the heat of your mouth and the light of your body which is also hot, the whole universe is
suffering and extremely agonized.
ावापृिथ यो रदम तरं िह या ं वयैक
े न िदश सवाः|
वाऽ ुतं पमुगं तवेदं लोकतयं प यिथतं महा मन्
You have alone pervaded the interval between the earth and the sky as well as space in all the
directions. O the great soul, all the three worlds are extremely harassed by seeing your fearsome and
astonishing form (20)
(315) The heaven and the nether-world, the earth and the intermediate space below the heavens and
all the ten directions- the whole horizon is filled –
(316) by you alone which I am seeing with wonder but it seems that the fierce form has drowned in
its depth every thing including the heavens.
(317) It seems that all the fourteen planes of nature have become like bags or bundles in this vast
form of yours. How can then my intellect grasp this tremendous whole?
(318) I cannot imagine or measure this limitless existence, nor can I bear the sight of this ferocious
form! All my comfort has left me! Somehow I am keeping myself alive.
(319) My Lord! I cannot understand how, looking at your form like this I am greatly struck by total
wonder and all the three worlds are being overcome by the mighty waves of miserable plight.
(320) Actually there should not be any fear while seeing great Being like you but it is true that what I
