feel when I look at you is not happiness!
(321) So long as I had not seen you, there was happiness in worldly life but since I have one glimpse
of your vast universal form, I am becoming dejected, being fed up with everything in life!
(322) Further, is it possible to embrace you in this condition with our affection? And if we cannot
get the benefit of that, how can we continue to be sorrowful in this separateness?
(323) So, if I turn my back upon you, the gaping worldly life with its birth and death confronts me
and if I try to continue seeing you, I cannot bear the vision and your unimaginably strange fierce
form!
(324) So, the whole three worlds are lamentably being scorched in this double dilema. This is my
real mental condition when I see you in this form.
(325) This is like a man sustaining burns in a fire, runs to the sea for relief, but there he becomes
scared by its high waves!
(326) Similar is the pitiable plight of this world which is disturbed by the glimpse of your universal
form! There I see many hosts of men of intelligence.
अमी िह वां सुरसंघा िवशि त क
े िच ीता पा जलयो गृणि त|
व ती यु वा महिषिस संघाः तुवि त वां तुितिभः पु कलािभः
These groups of gods are entering into you. Some are afraid and are praying with folded hands.
The groups of sages and adepts are praising you profusely by reciting auspicions verses (21)
(327) They are burning the seeds of their Karma by your light and are merging themselves with your
Reality by their true self, and real faith.
(328) And there are some on this side, who, cowards by nature are turning to you and praying you
with folded hands.
(329) They are saying- "O God! We are being drowned in the ocean of ignorance, being caught in the
net of sense- objects and are pinched between the worldly life on one side and heaven on the
other.
(330) Who is going to free us from this calamity except you! We are therefore totally surrendered to
you."
(331) And on the other side, many groups of Adepts and sages are reciting the auspicious verses for
you and they are joined by Angels called Vidyadharas.
