दािद या वसवो ये च सा या िव ेऽि नौ म त ो मपा |
ग धवय ासुरिस स घा वी ते वां िवि मता ैव सव
Rudras, Adityas, Vasus, Saadhyas, Vishwedevas, Ashwinikumars, Marutas, Ushmapas,
Gandharvas, Yakshas, Asuras, groups of adepts - all are astonished and are looking at you with awe!
(22)
(332) These hosts of Rudras and Adityas, as also Vasus, all Saadhyas, the two Ashwini kumars and
Angels of Air-with all their glory-
(333) Consider the ancestors and Gandharvas, beyond them the Nature spirits called Yakshas,
Rakshasas, Gods headed by Mahendra and sages like Adept masters,
(334) All these in their respective habitats are looking with eagerness at your great form which is
divine!
(335) O God, thus being surprised while looking at you, they are respectfully waving their crowns
before you, every moment.
(336) They are putting their folded palms on their foreheads while bowing before you and
exclaiming loudly the words "Victory to you! Victory to you!’’ by which sound there are echoes
in the heavens.
(337) These look like trees of respectful humility and in the forest of those trees, as there is advent
of the spring season, it seems that the leaves of their folded palms are bearing fruit which is your
own reality.
पं मह े बहव नेतं महाबाहो बहबाह पादम्|
बहदरं बहदं ाकरालं वा लोकाः प यिथता तथाहम्
O The god of great arms, your read nature is very magnificent, having many mouths and eyes,
many hands, thighs and feet; many stomachs, many teeth which make it appear to be very cruel, and
looking at this fierce form, people as well as I myself have become affected by great anguish (23)
(338) It is their good luck; and their minds have great joy because they have seen your universal
form.
(339) Even gods are afraid by the sight of this great form but today it, being occupying all the three
worlds, is possible to be seen by anybody as if he is just standing in front of you.
(340) This is only One Form, one Figure, but, is has many dangerous looking mouths, many eyes,
many weapons and innumerable arms.
