(341) It has many thighs, arms, feet, stomachs and many colours, and every face is puffed up with
inner pride!
(342) It seems that the God of death has just now kindled tremendous holocasts of fire of the day of
final destruction.
(343) Or the weapons of Rudra used at the time of final dissolution of the universe, or the
playgrounds of killer Bhairavas of that time, or guns having power to bring about total
devastation, are shooting out at one time!
(344) Similar are your monstrous mouths everywhere, and the teeth which look like angry lions
which are not remaining in them but protruding out.
(345) And the blood-smeared molars seem as if the ghosts have come out with their evil force, in the
night of the final death of the world!
(346) Over and above these fierce scenes, your mouths themselves look like Death has invited them
for fighting some war, or the annitilation has given good nourishment to death and it has taken the
form of these mouths.
(347) You have just slightly turned your gaze towards the world of these beings but only by that,
their world looks like trees on the bank of river Yamuna, burned out due to the venom of Kalia
the cobra.
(348) In the ocean of total death which you are, this ferry of the life of the triple world being zapped
by the evil winds of sorrow is heaving up and down.
(349) Even if you may admonish me for all my care about these beings and say, "Why do you bother
about others? You should look after yourself and enjoy the sight of this grand panorama!"
(350) I mean to say that I am simply using my anxiety about all these beings as a buffer, or a shield,
to hide my our condition because really speaking I am myself totally trembling by fear of losing
my own life.
(351) You have created such a fearsome situation here that I, of whom the great terminator Rudra is
afraid, and fearing whom even the Death hides His face, have myself begun to tremble with
apprehension.
(352) Thus, this is really a strange epidemic! Though it is called universal, all-pervading form, it is
in fact such that even fear is afraid before it.
नभः पृशं दी मनेकवण या ाननं दी िवशालनेतम्
वा िह वां प यिथता तरा मा धृितं न िव दािम शमं च िव णो
