By seeing your vast form which is touching the sky, which is bright and having various colours,
with your mouth wide open, and shining wide eyes, I am disturbed to my very soul and O Vishnu! I
am not having any self-confidence nor peace of mind! (24)
(353) There are many faces of yours who will challenge the death god also in the matter of
fierceness, and these angry faces have belittled even the sky by their tremendous increasing
height.
(354) Just see how even the fire is burning by the hot vapours of the mouths of this great God, who
cannot be covered by the expanse of even the sky and who cannot be rounded up by the wind of
the whole three worlds.
(355) One face is not like the others, they have different colours, but it seems that fire must be taking
the help of these faces to burn the universe at the end.
(356) The brilliance of this body is such that the three worlds will be turned into ashes and in
addition, the mouths are of dangerous nature with strong and large teeth and molars!
(357, 358) This totally destructive form has such a big mouth that one thinks that the wind has got an
attack of tetanus, or the sea is drowned in a big flood or the fire of poison "Halahala" has drank
fire, or death is about to kill death.
(359) And how big is this? It is as if the space is torn, and a cover is made of it for the sky.
(360) Or it is the big door of the nether world thrown open by god Mahadev, Hatakeshwar, when
Hiranyaksha entered with the planet of earth into the tunnel of the nether world.
(361) Such is the expanse of these mouths; and the tongues in these mouths are also very active, but
thinking that the whole universe is not enough to form even a morsel in his mouth, this great
Almighty God is not ready to eat it even as a matter of pass-time.
(362) The tongue in the valley of this mouth is like the flames of poison of the cobras from the nether
world reaching up to the heavens.
(363) The crooked teeth protruding out or the lips look like decoration made for the houses of angels
by knitting the net of lightnings shining at the time of deluge.
(364) The eyes below the cavities under the wall of forehead seem to threaten even the fear itself or
the outbursts of great death, awaiting in the depth of darkness.
(365) My Lord, what purpose do you want to serve by adopting such a fierce appearance, I cannot
understand, but one thing is sure, the fear of death is eating me.
(366) My Lord, I nurtured a strange desire to see your universal form, but a very unexpected fruit of
