that desire is being plucked by me. Sir, I have duly seen you as I wanted and now there is full
satisfaction to my eyes.
(367) Sir, who cares if this earthly body dies! But there is a great apprehention that even my spirit
will perhaps be destroyed.
(368) And my body trembles by fear or even my mind is upset, my intellect has been disturbed and
my ego is also been forgotten.
(369) And beyond this, the Atman which is permanent, and the very image of joy, has also become
sick of this repulsive sight.
(370) Sir, the power of this stark realization is so great that the whole understanding has abandoned
me and gone away. I am not sure whether the relationship of the teacher and the disciple will
survive.
(371) My God, I am trying very hard to collect myself together with sufficient steadiness, in order to
save myself from the feebleness which has entered my consciousness-
(372) That forbearance has also gone, because it has also witnessed your limitless existence. But let
it be so! One lesson I have definitely learnt perfectly.
(373) That is - The Jeeva hoping to get some rest runs here and there, but that poor soul does not find
any place where he can take rest.
(374) Such is the effect of the epidemic of this universal form which has gulped down the life of all
the world. My god! If this is not to be spoken, how can one sit silent?
दं ाकरालािन च ते मुखािन, वैव कालानलसंिनभािन|
िदशो न जाने न लभे च शम पसीद देवेश जगि नवास
By looking at your mouths which are repulsively ugly due to the great teeth and which resemble
the fires of the time of total destruction of the universe, I am confused about where I stand, nor do I
find any peace of mind. O the Lord of the gods and the resort of the world! Be pleased! (25)
(375) But my Lord, just as a big Gun of fear should be opened and my eyes should be constantly
looking at it, I am seeing these hideous mouths opened and spread before my eyes.
(376) Not only this but as the line of teeth cannot be contained inside the lips, it is protruding out and
is appearing as if a compound wall of killer weapons is built around the mouths.
(377) Just as somebody may give more poison to the Takshak to drink or one may be possessed by a
ghost in a dark night or the heavenly lightning should be sharpened by the fire weapon!
