(378) Similarly the great force of destruction is overflowing from your mouths and we are afraid as
if the great floods of numberless deaths is attacking us.
(379) What thing will remain untouched, when the great tornado of the time of total destruction joins
its forces with the anihillatory fires?
(380) Similarly why should not our patience and self confidence leave us at the sight of all these
fearsome mouths? I am so confused that I cannot make out any directions distinctly nor am I aware
of myself.
(381) I have had just one glimpse of your fearsome form and suddenly there is a drought of
happiness. So, please withdraw all this manifestation spread out beyond limits.
(382) You may ask why I am so begging for withdrawal of this universal form, when I know that you
are anyway going to do so presently, I entreat you to please do save me from the destruction.
(383) O Ananta, if you are the protector of our life, please give us a shield. Withdraw this terrific
spread of this epidemic, and keep it securely hidden.
(384) My God, when you are the life of this universe, O, the deity beyond all deities, how did you
forget it and start destroying it?
(385) Therefore, take back your Maya, be pleased and save me from this extreme danger!
(386) O the Universal God! I am so much terrified by this limitless existence that I keep on repeating
my prayer to close this horrible show.
(387) Actually I defeated singly the enemies of Indra when they attacked his capital Amaravati and I
am not afraid to see death in its eyes boldly.
(388) But O God, this is not a matter of that type here. You seem to be intent upon destroying us
together with this universe.
(389) When this was not the time of total destruction, suddenly you met us half way, as the very
death in person, and the poor trinity of worlds became short - lived.
(390) Or the luck has turned her back on us. While efforts were made for peace, suddenly this
calamity has attacked. Sir, gone is the universe! Gone is the universe! You have nearly devoured
all this!
(391) Is it not that I am actually seeing many mouths spread by you and you are eating these armies
from all sides?
अमी च वां धृतरा य पुताः सव सहैवाविनपालस घैः|
