भी मो दोणः सूतपुत तथाऽसौ सहा मदीयैरिप योधमु यै
And all these sons of Dhrutarashtra, together with the groups of kings, Bheeshma, Drona,
Sootaputra (Karna) and also with main heros of our Army - (26)
(392) These heros form the Army of Kauravas, sons of Dhrutarashtra are gone! Gone into your
mouth, together with their assistants.
(393) You are also swallowing all the kings who have gathered to help them with such a
thoroughness that nobody will survive to tell their story!
(394) You are gulping down the groups of elephants together with their Mahats.
(395) On the guns, there are gunmen, whom you are eating together with the warriors attending them.
(396) You are putting in your gaping mouth hundreds and thousands of weapons, which are like twin
brothers of the God of death.
(397) You are eating without allowing them touch your teeth, the four categories of armymen and
also chariots together with their horses; and why you are satisfied with this strange food, I cannot
understand.
(398) There is no one else as brave and lover of truth as Bheeshma and Drona who is a Brahmin;
They are also being eaten by you.
(399) O! See the son of the Sun, Karna! He is also gone into your mouth! And you are as if sweeping
the dirt, which is our army.
(400) O! While I requested to give your blessing, see the unexpected gruesome result of that! I have
unfortunately brought about a great calamity on the world- the calamity of death!
(401) The God had earlier told me some of his manifestations, but I was not contented by that; and I
demanded him to tell me further!
(402) So destiny cannot be avoided. It was in my luck that people should blame me. How can it be
averted? Man's intellect also functions according to what is destined to happen.
(403) In ancient days, in the churning of the ocean of milk, nectar was brought out but gods were not
satisfied. In the end the great poison Kalakoot was produced. This is similar to that.
(404) Even that calamity must be considered not so serious. That poison was possible to be kept
harmless to the world. Lord Shankar had avoided disaster at that time.
(405) But now who can prevent this burning wind? Who will swallow this whole heaven which is
