already full of poison? Who has the power to fight with this total death?"
(406) In this way Arjuna was worried and was lamenting in his mind but he did not quite grasp what
the Lord meant.
(407) He was confused by the great illusion thinking that "he was the killer and the Kouravas were
being killed by him." In order to remove that confusion from his mind the Lord Anant was
showing this reality.
(408) "My dear! Nobody kills nobody! Here I am the only killer." This is what Shrihari wanted to
show by making Arjuna see the universal form.
(409) But the anxiety and fear of Arjuna was quite out of place. He did not follow the implied
message of the Lord. And his misplaced fear and trembling went on increasing.
व ािण ते वरमाणा िवशि त दं ाकरालािन भयानकािन|
क
े िचि ल ना दशना तरे षु सं य ते चूिणतै मा गैः
Arjuna said- "They are running fast into your awesome mouths of fierce teeth and some who are
caught in between the teeth are seen with their heads being crushed. (27)
(410) He said, "All the armies on both sides are going into your mouth, together with all their
weapons, and they look like clouds disappearing in the sky.
(411) At the end of the larger world period (Kalpa) Death angrily destroys the Nature in all the
twenty-one divisions including the nether worlds.
(412) Or when the desting turns against a man who amassess wealth, his total prosperity is suddenly
lost!
(413) Similarly, armies on both sides are entering together in this mouth and it is a wonder that not a
single man escapes his destiny.
(414) They are wasted like tender leaves of Ashoka tree bitten and eaten by a camel.
(415) The heads together with the crowns are seen caught between the teeth, being pulverized.
(416) Their jewels are caught in the crevices of the teeth, some are crushed and their powdered
remnants are spread on the tongue, and some gems appear struck on the ends of the teeth.
(417) This universal form is no doubt killing and gulping down all the bodies, but surprisingly the
souls in these bodies are saved by him.
(418) As these souls are the real seeds of every being, Time as destroyer has left these, undisturbed.
