extremely fearsome. (30)
(427) And your hunger is not satisfied even after swallowing all these! What a strangely acute
hunger this is!
(428) Your tongues which are lustily moving about, are such that you seem like a man recently cured
of some illness and is very hungry or a beggar caught in a condition of starvation by worldwide
dry season.
(429) There is nothing remaining to be eaten by these mouths. This hunger is really extreme!
(430, 431) You are appearing as if you wish to gulp the whole sea, or make one morsel of a
mountain or crush the universe under your teeth, or swallow up all the space in all directions and
eat up all the stars! Such is your greed!
(432) Just as lust begets more lust and fire is flared up by fuel, your mouths are becoming more
greedy by eating.
(433) The vast trinity of worlds is just held on the tip of your tongue like a fruit thrown in the great
fire.
(434) And like this, there are innumerable mouths; one wonders why so many mouths are spread out
when there is no likelihood of getting sufficient food for all of them. Perhaps that is why so many
Trinities of worlds are created!
(435) Ah! All this world! This poor world is caught in the flames of this mouth, which looks like
innocent deers caught in the forest fire!
(436) That is the plight of this world! It is as if the fish which is the world, is caught in the net which
is the Time, the destroyer of all. You are not God but the bad luck of all the worlds!
(437) Now how these 'deers' which are the worlds, escape from the snares of this primordial light?
These are not merely the mouths on the body of the universal God; these are burning lacquer-
houses.
(438) The fire does not know what pain is suffered by burns, but he who is touched by fire cannot
escape death.
(439) The weapon does not know, how its sharpness harms somebody and poison does not know
how it kills.
(440) Similarly you are not aware of your own fierceness, but your mouth on this side, is like an
open crater of volcano in which the world is being burnt.
