you, all the heros standing in these armies are going to die. (32)
(451) The Lord said- "Know that I am the Death and in order to kill all the people I have spread all
these mouths. I am going to eat all these."
(452) Then Arjuna said- "Oh! I was afraid of the tragedy that would be caused by the war and,
therefore, I prayed this God to save me, but he has, instead assumed more dangerous
proportions!"
(453) At that time, thinking that Arjuna will be more dejected by his harsh words he immediately
added- "O Arjuna, but in it there is something else!"
(454) And that is that you - all the Pandavas- are outside the field of this present destruction." - On
hearing this, Arjuna somehow became assured about his own life.
(455) He was on the point of being caught in the epidemic of that death, but becoming a bit peaceful,
began to pay attention to what the Lord Shrikrishna was saying.
(456) The Lord said. "Arjuna! All of you Pandavas are mine! Please consider this. I am going to kill
all others."
(457) You have seen this world being dissolved in my mouth like a lump of butter fallen in a big
fire.
(458) And it is not a false statement. All these armies are in vain boasting!
(459) The pride of these four-faceted armies is competing with death-god. See the extra-ordinary
insolence of these soldiers!
(460) They boast- "We will create alternate world! We swear that we will kill death itself. We will
swallow all this world in one gulp!
(461) We will gulp down all this earth. We will burn the sky in its high place. We will pinch down
wind by our arrows!"
(462) These armies full of soldiers are gathering together and are agitated in the pride of their
bravery and valour and praising their force as fiercer than the death- god".
(463) Their words are sharper than weapons, they appear more inflammable than fire and they are so
acutely poisonous that "Kalkoot" poison will also be considered sweeter than these.
(464) But recognize these as false as the imposingly delusive castles formal by clouds in the sky, or
the lumps of vacuum, or fruits painted in a picture.
