(465) Arjuna! This is the flowing stream of mirage and not an army but a serpent made of cloth, or
empty toys, arrayed, after painting their surfaces.
त मा वमुि यशो लभ व िज वा शतू भु व रा यं समृ म्
मयैवैते िनहताः पूवमेव िनिम मातं भव स यसािचन्
Therefore, you must get up and achieve victory; and by conquering enemies enjoy prosperous
kingdom. I have myself killed them earlier. O Savyasachi, you should become only instrumental. (33)
(Savyasachi - ambidextrous)
(466) This army which is so much proud and showing off its enthusiasm is already swallowed by
me, and now these soldiers who appear to be standing are only toy devils in the house of a potter.
(467) If the string which holds the puppets on a pillar is cut, the puppets topple down even by
somebody's touch.
(468) Similarly the false arrangement of this army will not take much time to be destroyed.
Therefore get up immediately and act wisely.
(469) On the occasion of catching of the cattle, you had used hypnotism on mass scale on the armies
of Kauravas, and when it was unconscious, Uttara the young timid son of Virata was asked by you
to snatch away the clothes of these warriors and had made them naked.
(470) Compared to that, the present job is very easy, because the army in this battle is already
counted as dead. Now you have only to execute the outer action of destroying them, and earn the
fame that Arjuna single-handedly killed all his enemies, and achieved victory."
(471) That fame is surely not a dry applause. The whole kingdom is going to be in your hands. So in
all this war, O Arjuna, you have only to become an instrument. in my hand.
दोणं च भी मं च जयदथं च कण तथाऽ यानिप योधवीरान्|
मया हतां वं जिह मा यिथ ा यु य व जेतािस रणे सप नान्
You should not feel sorry. You should kill the many warriors like Drona, Bheeshma, Jayadratha
and Karna, who are already killed by me. Fight! You are definitely going to be victorious over your
enemies! (34)
(472) Do not be scared of Drona. Do not be afraid of Bheeshma. Do not ask yourself- "How am I to
raise my weapon against Karna?"
(473) Your mind should not worry about the way in which you should kill Jayadratha or many other
famous brave men.
