(474) These are also, each and everyone of them, to be considered as lions painted in a picture, who
can be mopped out by a wet palm.
(475) O Arjuna, in view of this, what importance does this seemingly great gathering of forces have?
This is only a false appearance. What was actually is already gutted down by me!
(476) When you have seen them to have fallen in my mouth, their life was already over. What is
remaining now is their empty appearance!
(477) Therefore, get up quickly. You should finish what I have already done. Do not enter into the pit
of sorrow which has no real existence.
(478) Your work is now just like putting up a target at a distance by your own hands, and playfully
shooting it.
(479) My dear! What evil there was, has already been snatched away by the tiger of death. You have
now to enjoy the fame accompanied by kingdom.
(480,481) O Arjuna, you should write on the tongues of the people of the world, the words- "See!
Arjuna has without any effort destroyed all the arrogant and insolent relatives, who had been
puffed up by their power, and is victorious.
एत छ
ु वा वचनं क
े शव य क
ृ ता जिलवपमानः िकरीटी|
नम क
ृ वा भूय एवाह क
ृ णं सग दं भीतभीतः पण य
After listening to this advice of Keshav (Krishna) Arjuna with folded hands and trembling body
bowed again and again to Shrikrishna and with fear in his mind said again- (35)
(482) Saint Dnyandev says, "In this way, Sanjaya was reporting to Dhritarashtra,
the king or Kurus, who was not very happy because his plans were not being fulfilled."
(483) Then Shrikrishna said to Arjuna with such a fluency like the flow of Ganges coming down fast
from the heavens (Satyaloka- the region of God the Creator).
(484) His talk was having that continuous depth of voice as the repetitive thundering of the clouds in
the rainy season or the ocean of milk which was making noise by the churning of Mandar
mountain.
(485) In this way, the Lord Shrikrishna, the God Anant in his Universal form, said with deep
resonant voice.
(486) That was heard by Arjuna with slight attention, but it is not known whether he was happy or
afraid, but actually his body was completely trembling.
