(499) Thereupon, the Lord Shrikrishna said in short, "Dear Arjuna, I only showed to you that the life
period of both the armies is over, but this is going to happen in its own time.
(500) Before Shrikrishna could finish these words, Arjuna turned his head to the armies, and saw
that everything was status quo.
(501) Then, he said to the Lord, "O my Lord, you are the director of the whole drama of this world.
The whole world has come back to normalcy.
(502) But I remember your fame that you are the saviour of this world, which is being drowned in
the sea of sorrow.
(503) And when I frequently remember this, there is an experience of tremendous joy, and I am
happily floating on the waves of this joy which is like a nectar.
(504) My Lord, this world being saved by you is becoming more and more devoted to you, and the
evil doers are being destroyed more and more as the time goes on.
(505) All the demons in all the three worlds have great fear of you, O Hrishikesha, and therefore
they are running beyond the horizon in all directions.
(506) But here I see that the gods, the human beings, the para-human angels, or for that matter, all the
nature is being full of joy by seeing you and all are bowing down to you.
क मा च ते न नमेर महा मन् गरीयसे ब णोऽ यािदकत|
अनंत देवेश जगि नवास वम रं सदस परं यत्
O the Primordial creator of Brahma, why should not all these bow to you, who are so great, O the
limitless, the god of the gods, the place of rest for all the world? You are the imperishable! You are
that which is; that which is not' and the state beyond both of them. (37)
(507) O God, why are the demons, instead of surrendering themselves to your feet, running away?
(508) But is it necessary for us to ask you about this? We already know this simple fact. For, how
can darkness remain, when the Sun rises?
(509) My God, you are the very source of all light, and we have luckily got you with us. Naturally,
there is no wonder that the dirt in the form of these demons is easily swept away.
(510) We had not yet realised this fact for so many days. But now we have come to know your real
divine greatness.
(511) The great Brahman, which is the seed of all the universe has come into being out of your great
