will. From that seed, there are successive manifestations of universes in their varieties, and the
creepers of innumerable Beings grow.
(512) O God, you are yourself that principle, which is having no limits and which is self- evident.
Your qualities are beyond measure, and without end. O Lord, you are the eternal state of
equilibrium, and the chief of all the gods.
(513) O God, you are the life force of all the three worlds. There is no decay or any evil in you
because you are always auspicious. You are also that principle which is beyond the existence and
the non- existence.
वमािददेवः पु षः पुराण वम य िव य परं िनधानम्|
वे ािस वे ं च परं च धाम वया ततं िव मन त प
You are the most ancient god of the beginning of time, and the primordial man. You are the
highest place of rest and abode of this universe. You are the knower and the object to be known. You
are the supreme home. O God of limitless forms, the whole universe is stretched on your matrix (38)
(514) You are the beginning of Prakriti and Purusha principles. You are the far limit of Mahat
principle, and you yourself are so ancient that your beginning is not known.
(515) You are the vital-force of the universe. You are the resting place of souls, and the knowledge
of the past and the future is with you.
(516) My Lord, the eyes of Vedas are satisfied by the glimpse of your real nature, and you are the
support for the support of all the three worlds.
(517) Therefore, you are called the supreme home, and at the end of final dissolution, the Mahat
Brahman enters into you.
(518) You have permeated the whole universe. So, O the God of innumerable forms! Who can praise
you enough?
वायुयमोऽि नव णः शशा कः पजापित वं पिपतामह |
नमो नम तेऽ तु सहसक
ृ वः पुन भूयोऽिप नमो नम ते
नमः पुर तादथ पृ त ते नमोऽ तु ते सवत एव सव |
अन तवीयािमतिवकम वं सव समा नोिष ततोऽिस सवः
You are the Vayu, Yama, Agni, Varuna, Shashanka, Prajapati and Prapitamaha. (i.e. the deity of
air, the god of death, the fire, the god of water, the moon, the father of all creatures, and the great
grand-father). Salutations! More salutations be to you, thousand times and again and again my
