salutation to you. (39)
I bow to you from the front. I bow to you from your back. You are all! And I bow to you from all
sides. You are having limitless strength and limitless power. You occupy all and therefore you are
All! (40)
(519) My Lord, is there anything which you are not? Is there any place where you are not? There in
no point in finding out. Therefore my salutations to you as you are.
(520) O Ananta! You are the deity of the wind (air). You are Yama the controller of all, (death-god)
and you are fire in every being.
(521) You are the Lord of waters (Waruna), you are the Moon, you are Brahma the creater, and the
great grand-father, the father of Brahma.
(522) And in addition, whatever formed or formless existence there is, you are all these. O Master
of the world, my salutations are to you in all these forms.’’
(523) The son of Pandu saluted with great love in this way and said again and again. "Salutations!
Salutations, O God!"
(524) He attentively and carefully looked at the great universal God in this way and said again and
again- "Salutations! Salutations!"
(525) While looking at the limbs of the Lord he was satisfied and in that joy, said again and again -
"Salutations! Salutations!"
(526) He saw the Lord in all the beings everywhere in Nature, and said again- "O Lord! Salutations!
Salutations!"
(527) And looking at so many innumerable wonderful forms of the Lord, he was overwhelmed with
joy and said ""Salutations! Salutations!"
(528) He was so ecstatic with love that he could not remember any other word to praise the Lord,
nor could he remain quiet without speaking something.
(529) So, he saluted the Lord most humbly for more than thousand times and said "O Shrihari! My
Salutations to you who are before me!"
(530) He said- "O Master! We have no concern nor can we know whether you have front side and
back side! Therefore, even from your back side also, I bow to you.
(531) If considering you to be standing at my back, I say you are having your back at me, actually you
are neither facing the world nor have you turned your back to the world.
