(532) My Lord, I cannot also make out all your limbs separately. So, I bow to you who are all in all.
(533) Salutations to you! My Lord who are of limitless strength, Salutations to you of immeasurable
power! You who are equal in all forms and at all times.
(534) The sky is everywhere in the quality of space. Similarly as you are all, you have attained All-
ness!
(535) In short, it is you who are All This, without doubt, purely in your aloneness, but as the waves
are also of the milk, in the ocean of milk,
(536) You are not at all separate from All! O, my Lord! Now I have really experienced that you are
All!
सखेित म वा पसभं यदु ं हे क
ृ ण हे यादव हे सखेित|
अजानता मिहमानं तवेदं मया पमादा पणयेन वाऽिप
Not knowing your greatness like this, I have called you, "O Krishna, O Yadava, or O dear
friend," by thinking of you as my friend, either through love or through mistake, only in my
thoughtlessness;- (41)
(537) O My master, even when you are so great, we did not know you at all and, therefore, we
behaved with you as your relatives or kith and kin.
(538) Oh! What a bad thing has happened! I have used nectar for watering a courtyard! I have given
away Kamadhenu in exchange of a little lamb!
(539) Luckily we had come upon a large stone of Parees, but we broke it and used it for a bund wall.
We have cut down a Kalpataru (wish-tree) and built a compound wall for our field.
(540) We got a mine of Chintamani jewels, but we used these jewels as stones or brickbats to drive
away stray cattle. In this way, we wasted the great boon of your intimacy just in a relationship of
ordinary kind.
(541) And see the glaring example of this very day! What does this battle count? But though you are
"The Absolute Brahman" evidently manifest, I have used you as my charioteer!
(542) O The Generous one! We sent you to the house of Kouravas for representing our claim just
like an ambassador! In this way O the Lord of the world! We have unfortunately used you for our
paltry profits!
(543) You are the happiness which Yogis experience in their trance! O! What a fool I am that I know
you not! We have openly laughed at you or treated you casually!
