य चावहासाथमस क
ृ तोऽिस िवहारश यासनभोजनेषु|
एकोऽथवा य युत त सम ं त ामये वामहमपमेयम्
-And you have been slighted by me in fun or jest, O the measureless Achyuta while at playing
game, or while reposing, sitting or at meals, either in private or in the presence of others. For all that,
I beg to be forgiven! (42).
(544) You are the original seed of the whole universe! And while you were seated in the royal
conference hall, we have made jokes with you in a light manner.
(545) When we came to your house and enjoyed your loving hospitality, we stupidly got annoyed
even if there was a slight lacuna in your pampering of us.
(546) Then, O The wieldier of Sharng bow, you had to entreat us and beg of us to forgive you and
accept the things offered by you. We have misbehaved like this many times.
(547) With an air of intimacy we used to sit anyway without manners and etiquette before you. Was
it right for us, O the Ruler of Vaikutha? No! It was a grave mistake on our part!
(548) My Lord! We sometimes adamantly played false in games, created impendiments in your play
and argued vehemently against you though we had fumbled in our own game.
(549) Whenever we saw something good, we wanted it for ourselves and arrogantly insisted on your
giving it to us, and at times we did not hesitate to tell you what was better. Sometimes we even
insulted you with words like "What have you done for us?" etc.
(550) This is our crime which is heavier than all the three worlds. But I swear now by touching your
feet that all this was committed by us unknowingly.
(551) My Lord, I remember how you waited for me to join you at dinner, but by my conceit I used to
get myself puffed up and did not appreciate your loving kindness.
(552) We used to play even in your rest-room without a thought that we are disturbing you and used
to sleep even by your side on your bed.
(553) When we called you by name Krishna by taking you to be only an ordinary Yadava and you
went on without paying heed to us, we used to try to stop you by taking an oath which you would
honour.
(554) Many a time, it had so happened due to my intimacy with you, that I sat on your seat adhering
to you or did not value your good counsel very much.
(555) So, Ananta! How many examples should be given now! I am a heap of all faults.
