(556) Therefore, O Lord, whatever mistakes we committed through ignorance, in your presence or in
your absence, may be connived at and forgiven us with the kindness of a mother!
(557) Whatever dirty streams a river may include in its flow, all of them merge into the waters of the
sea. There is no other goal.
(558) Similarly, Whatever talk we had indulged into, either due to intimate love or error, the Lord
Mukund may please forgive us for it.
(559) And it is because of the nature of forgiveness which is in God, that all the beings have for their
support this kind quality of forgiving. Therefore, however greatly we may beg of you, it is still
inadequate.
(560) You are beyond all measurements. Please forgive me of my crimes, since I have totally
surrendered myself to you.
िपताऽिस लोक य चराचर य वम य पू य गु गरीयान्|
न व समोऽ य यिधकः क
ु तोऽ यो लोकतयेऽ यपितमपभावः
You are the father of all this world, you are the great revered Guru of all this. There is nobody
else equal to you. How can there be anybody greater than you, whose influence on this world is
unequalled? (43)
(561) Sir, I have now known the greatness of the God, who is you, who are the place from where the
whole creation is born.
(562) My Lord, you are the supreme God to all the deities like Hari and Hara, and you are the First
Guru who has given the Knowledge to Vedas.
(563) O The beloved of Shree (Laxmi), you are unfathomable. You are same to all the various
beings. You are having no equal in all your good qualities and are one without a second.
(564) What is the necessity of announcing that you have no equal anywhere? It is you who become
the sky and in it the world is contained;
(565) So, even to talk about anything in comparison to you is making us shy! How can we talk about
whether or not there is anybody greater than you?
(566) So, you are only one in all the three worlds. None is equal and none better than you. We do not
know how to praise your extraordinary greatness.
त मा पण य पिणधाय कायं पसादये वामहमीशमी यम्|
िपतेव पुत य सखेव स युः िपयः िपयायाहिस देव सोढु म्
