Therefore, I put myself at your feet and offer my salutations and I beseach you to be pleased, O
God, who must be worshipped. You should in the fitness of things, forgive my mistakes like a father
forgiving his son, a friend forgiving his friend, a beloved forgiving the beloved, O God! (44)
(567) Arjuna said like this and again he prostrated before the God, and at that time he had a pang of
pious ecstacy!
(568) He said- "Please! Please!" His tongue being choked by emotion, he called out- "Please lift me
out of this sea of misbehaviour!"
(569) We did not pay much respect to you who are the friend of all beings, and also the Lord of the
universe.
(570) Though you are yourself to be praised, you talked words of praise for me in the conference
and not knowing my really low status, I opened myself proudly talking about my own greatness!
(571) O Mukunda! There is no limit to all such misconducts of ours and, therefore, please protect us,
protect us from these mistakes committed-
(572) To request for which I have no status nor the nerve. But I talk like a child talking with his
father.
(573) Please bear with me as a father forgives with equanimity the wrong-doings of his child, though
they may be serious.
(574) A friend quietly connives at the arrogant behaviour of his friend. You may please forgive us
like that.
(575) A beloved does not expect outward formality of showing of respect from his partner.
Similarly, you may please forget and forgive that we allowed you to clean the plates at the
ceremonial dinner at our home, without being aware of your greatness.
(576) When a really lovingly intimate friend meets, one does not hesitate opening one's heart to him
and tell him all one's miserable plights.
(577) Or for a really devoted wife who has offered all her body, mind and soul to her husband, it is
impossible to tell him everything as soon as he meets her.
(578) O Master, I have requested you in the same manner, and there is one more reason to speak
more in this connection.
अ पूव िषतोऽि म वा भयेन च प यिथतं मनो मे|
तदेव मे दशय देव पं पसीद देवेश जगि नवास
