I am exhilarated by seeing something never seen before, and being excited my mind is much
disturbed by the great terror! O the god of all deities, O the resort of all the world! Be pleased!
Please show me your former (beautiful ) form (45)
(579) My Lord, I became very fresh with you, and on the strength of my intimacy, I insistantly
requested you to show me the universal form and as a loving parent of all the world, you had
fulfilled my request.
(580) My demands were like asking to open an exhibition of Kalpatarus (wish-trees) in my
courtyard or that I should get calves of Kamadhenu to play with.
(581) Or to have stars as wooden pieces in a game to play with (like chess) or to have Moon as a
ball, which demands were fulfilled by you like a loving mother.
(582) The nectar, even the drop of which is available after very hard efforts, was showered by you
as rain for all the four months of rainy-season, and you have cultivated the land of this earth, and
sown the gems, 'Chintamani' in the beds of that land.
(583) My Lord, in this way you have pampered me, taken my care, and showed me your universal
form which is not heard of even by Brahma and Shankara.
(584) Sir, let alone the chance of seeing it, you have opened the secret of your heart by releasing the
knot, which is not grasped even by the highest thought of Upanishads,
(585) Sir, even if I take an inventory of all the births which I have taken from the beginning of the
universe,
(586) I do not remember to have seen or heard about this highest secret.
(587) Sir, the pride of knowledge or intellect cannot take a step in the precincts of this secret of the
universal form, and the mind has no inkling of its 'news' anywhere.
(588) There is of course no question of seeing such a thing by eyes. In short, I have had never seen
this universal form or heard about it any time in the past.
(589) But it has been shown to me by you, and therefore, O my Lord, I am excited by happiness
because of that.
(590) But my mind is having a great urge to have a personal talk with you, to sit by your side and to
embrace you with love.
(591) Now if such things are to be done in respect of your universal form, to which of your mouths
should I address myself? And which body should I embrace? Because, your form is limitless.
