(592) The problem is just like the problem of how to run with the wind, how to embrace the sky, and
how to swim playfully in the vast sea!
(593) Therefore, O Lord, I am terrified by this form. So, please meet my only request! Please,
withdraw this vast form!
(594) When we go out to travel, and see the various sights of the nature and various animals, their
beauty and their grandeur, we feel like going home, and recline restfully for a while. Similarly we
are happy and feel secure with your pleasant four-armed beautiful form.
(595) Even if we study Yoga, this is the last experience we have to attain, and even if we study
thoroughly all the sciences, this is the final truth, which we have to realize.
(596) Even if we perform many sacrifices, their result is this. Even if we undertake pilgrimages they
are for attaining this glimpse.
(597) And whatever more merits we may earn by charity etc., this four-armed beautiful manifestation
is its fruit.
(598) So I am very much eager to see that form about which I have so much attrac-tion in my mind.
Therefore, please, you may remove that anxiety immediately.
599) O God of all deities, to whom all of them worship, O the all-pervading God, the Innermost
Witness of all the Jeevas, please be kind to me!
िकरीिटनं गिदनं चकह तिम छािम वां द महं तथैव|
तेनैव पेण चतुभुजेन सहसबाहो भव िव मूत
I wish to see you in the same form bearing a crown, holding a mace and the disc, in the same way.
O the God of thousand arms, the God of Universal form, appear again in the same four-armed form
(46)
(600) That form of yours I wish to see, which gives blueness to the blue lotus, gives additional hue
of blue to the blue sky and makes more dazzling the blue sapphire.
(601) Just like a sapphire may have its own fragrance, or joy may have a sprout, so his beauty gives
enhanced beauty to the cupid.
(602) When one sees his crown, one becomes confused as to whether the crown decorates the head
or the head gives more beauty to the crown because his body is the improvement upon the
ornamentations.
(603) He wears his Vaijayanti garland which appears similar to a bead of clouds on the string of
