rainbow.
(604) His mace gives liberation to gods and demons, by separating them from their bodies and O
Govind! How beautiful does the "Sudarshana" appear!
(605) I am eager to look upon that beautiful body; so, my Lord, please resume your former body.
(606) My Lord, I am satisfied enough by seeing this vast universal form and now I am hankering to
see you as Krishnamurti, the small image of Krishna.
(607) My eyes do not feel happy without seeing that small physical body which is so neat and fine.
They do not give much value to this tremendous form, compared to the attractive four-armed
figure.
(608) My Lord, without your beautiful human form before us, we will not be able
to enjoy this life or the state of liberation. Therefore, please withdraw this universal form and
adopt your normal human form.
शीभगवानुवाच-
मया पस नेन तवाजुनेदं पं परं दिशतमा मयोगात्|
तेजोमयं िव मन तमा ं य मे वद येन न पूवम्
The Lord said, "I have shown to you, O Arjuna, this brilliant universal, limitless, primordial form
by my yogic power of Atman, because I am pleased with you. Nobody has upto now seen this wonder
except you. (47)
(609) On this request of Arjuna, the Lord, in his form of limitless proportions, was a bit surprised,
and said to Arjuna, "I have not found any stupid person like you."
(610) "What an extra-ordinary luck it is that you have seen this! But you are not happy with it! I do
not know whether you are talking like this through cowardice or through your adamant attitude.
(611) My dear, when we are pleased, we generally give everything up to the level of physical
material to all. Unless a real devotee meets us, how can we give out this secret of our soul?
(612) Today, only for your sake, we have of our own pleasure and will, adopted this vast form,
which is our secret.
(613) We do not know, how we have become so soft and attached to you, but it is true that we are
pleased with you, and become mad about you, and therefore made this deepest and secret form
manifest so clearly in the outer world.
