(614) This form of ours is beyond the limitless; and all the incarnations like Krishna and others are
manifested from this.
(615) This is the essence of the light of knowledge. This is 'alone' and 'universal' at the same time.
This is having no end, and having no degeneration. This is the primary thing to all others.
(616) Dear Arjuna, nobody except you has had upto now, seen this or heard about this because this
cannot be experienced by any effort whatsoever.
न वेदय ा ययनैन दानैः न च िकयािभन तपोिभ गैः|
एवं पः श य अहं नृलोक
े द ं वद येन क
ु पवीर
O the great warrior among the Kurus, I cannot be seen in this form by anybody else in the human
world, either by learning Vedas, performing sacrifices, study, giving generous charities or by
ceremonial actions or by severe penance. (48)
(617) Vedas came up to the path of approaching this, but there they kept quiet, and the performers of
sacrifices turned back down from the heavens.
(618) The seekers knew that this great form cannot be experienced by yogic practices, and that, only
hard-work is there and therefore, they left that study, and even learning by heart anything, does not
help in this matter.
(619) Even the meritorious deeds, which are considered to be of the highest rank, somehow make up
to the Satyaloka of Brahma only.
(620) The seekers, who undertake acute austerities, just had a glimpse of this divine brilliance, and
the determination in their mind, though very serious at first, suddenly cooled down. Like this, this
form is quite far away beyond the field of Tapas (Penance).
(621) And this universal form is seen by you without any effort, the glimpse of which is not possible
to anybody in the human world.
(622) My dear, you are the only person who has become worthy of seeing this
rich beautiful manifestation, which luck is not in the lot even of Brahma, the Creator.
मा ते यथा मा च िवमूढभावो वा पं घोरमी मेदम्|
यपेतभीः पीतमनाः पुन वं तदेव मे पिमदं पप य
Do not be troubled or confused by seeing my fearsome form like this. Be free of the fear, and
being happy in your mind, please see my small, beautiful form, which you have earlier seen. (49)
(623) Therefore, you should be pleased by having the benefit of seeing this universal form. Have
