absolutely no fear about this. Do not consider anything else better than this.
(624) Will anybody, when merged into the sea of nectar suddenly cry out and being afraid of death
run away?
(625) Or will anybody having come upon a mountain of gold, reject it by saying, "How can this
mountain be moved?"
(626) Should one throw away a Chintamani saying that it is a burden? Or wear it? Should one drive
away Kamadhenu saying that one cannot feed her?
(627) Should one say to the moon, if it comes to one's house, "Get away! I am feeling very hot?''
Should one say to the sun, If he comes near, "Get aside! Why are you throwing your shadow
here?" - And claim to be a wise man?
(628) Similarly when you have very easily got the glory of this universal manifestation before you,
should you become bored and afraid because of this?
(629) But you stupid fellow, Dhananjaya! You are really ignorant. Why should I be angry with you?
Really, you are discarding the figure, the body, and embracing the unreal shadow.
(630) When this is my real form, you think that it is not real, and being afraid of it, you are taking my
four- armed little human form, which is a thing made up by my Maya, as true, and are having
attraction for it.
(631) Thus, now drop this misconcept. Do not have longing for the small form.
(632) My dear, though this universal form seems to be awfully fierce, it is the only real thing about
which you must be very sure!
(633) Just as a miser always thinks of his treasure, buried deep down under the earth, and lives as a
poor person,
(634) Or just as keeping her whole heart and mind in her nest with her young ones in the nest which
are having no wings, the mother bird flies in the sky.
(635) Or as the cow, who is grazing on the mountain has her mind tied with her calves in the house;
similarly, you should fix your mind upon my real universal form.
(636) Only outwardly for the sake of enjoying the mutual relationship as a friend, you may have
interest in my human form with four arms.
(637) But never forget what I say again and again-that you should never let your faith in the universal
form be lost.
