(638) You are afraid of this because you have never seen it earlier, but leave out your fear and have
love totally concentrated on this one reality.
(639) Then Shrikrishna, having his faces everywhere in the universe said," We will do now as per
your wish. See my earlier human form at leisure as long as you wish."
संजय उवाच-
इ यजुनं वासुदेव तथो वा वक
ं पं दशयामास भूयः|
आ ासयामास च भीतमेनं भू वा पुनः सौ यवपुमहा मा
Sanjaya said," Having said to Arjuna in this manner, Vasudeva showed again his former form,
and becoming mild in physical appearance that great soul (Mahatma) gave consolation to him in his
state of fear. (50)
(640) As soon as the Lord said these words, he assumed his human form again. There is no wonder
in it, but what was wonderful was his love for Arjuna.
(641) Shrikrishna is Brahman incarnate, and the universal form was his deepest and most cherished
thing, but he made it open for Arjuna. Even then Arjuna did not like it.
(642) What Arjuna did was like asking for a thing and throwing it away, or finding fault in a real
gem, or going to see a prospective bride and twisting one's nose in disapproval.
(643) The Lord had increased his love for Arjuna so much that he showed him the best part of all his
teaching visibly before his eyes!
(644) An Ornament was made out of a chip of gold but if the ornament is not liked, what is to be
done? We have only to make the chip again as it was.
(645) Similarly, the Lord Shrikrishna, for his love for the disciple, projected his Real universal form
out of the illusory human form, but when Arjuna did not like it, he resumed his small beautiful
form as Krishna.
(646) Sanjaya said further to Dhritarashtra, ‘‘Where do we find such Gurus who go to this length in
order to fulfil the desires and whims of their disciples? But really one cannot understand how
Shrikrishna has such a deep love for Arjuna!
(647) Then the divine brilliance which was occupying the univese all around, was again confined to
the usual human body of Shrikrishna.
(648) It was just like the term "You" becoming merged into the Term "THAT", in the process of
eliminative thinking in Vedanta, or just like the totality of 'Treeness' being confined into a tiny
