seed.
(649) Or it was like the waking state swallowing the illusory state of dream. Shrikrishna thus
withdrew the manifestation of his glorious yoga.
(650) O King! It was like the light of the Sun re-entering the disc of the Sun, or all the riches of
clouds disappearing in the sky or the high tide withdrawing itself in the sea.
(651) The large cloth of universal form was neatly folded into the human body of Shrikrishna; that
was opened up and shown to Arjuna out of his love for him.
(652) Then, when the customer saw carefully the measurement of the cloth, its colour and texture etc.
and did not approve it, Shrikrishna again restored the fold of that cloth as it was.
(653) Thus, the form which expanded so much that it occupied the whole universe, again became
mild, peaceful and attractively lovely.
(654) In short, the Lord who is really immeasurable again took the little form, thus giving
consolation to Partha who was afraid due to the fearsome universal manifestation.
(655) Arjuna was surprised now, just like a man who has reached heaven in his dream world,
becomes wonder-struck when he suddenly wakes up.
(656) Or, Arjuna's seeing the small and beautiful human body of Shrikrishna was like disciple
whose knowledge of the outer world disappears by the kind teaching and blessings of his Guru
and the only Truth shines forth in his mind.
(657) Partha thought- "Now, it is very good that the screen of the universal form before my eyes is
torn.
(658) Like a man who has as if defeated the god of death and come back, or like a man who has won
the race of fast running, defeating the hurricane; or a man who has come swimming all the seven
seas by his own physical power;
(659) The son of Pandu was so elated by his satisfaction, by seeing again the human form of
Shrikrishna after disappearance of the fearsome universal form.
(660) Then, just like one begins to see stars in the sky after sunset, he started to see the world and the
people around him.
(661) He looked and saw the same battle field of Kurukshetra, the same relatives standing on both
the sides and throwing arrows and weapons on the warriors on the opposite sides.
(662) He saw his own chariot under the canopy of all the arrows, still at the same place, and saw the
