kept himself quiet.
(180) Arjuna saw all the elderly people of the rank of teachers, grand-fathers, preceptors, family-
members, uncles, etc.
(181) He also saw his dear friends and younger persons of his family and among them were also his
brothers-in-law.
(182) He saw in that crowd the intimate friends, father-in-law, other kith and kin, sons and grand-
sons also.
(183) He saw that there were those who were obliged by him or who were helped out of their
difficulties; and also assembled, there were others, both elders and youngers.
(184) In this way, Arjuna saw in both the armies his own relatives ready to fight.
(185) Looking at them Arjuna’s mind was disturbed and pity entered there. Feeling that the entry of
pity in the mind of Arjuna is insulting, his bravery left his mind.
(186) Because ladies of noble birth, who are accomplished and beautiful, cannot tolerate that any
other woman should dominate their home.
(187) Just as a person who is passionate, being enamoured by a younger and attractive woman
forgets his legally married wife and misbehaves errantly.
(188) Or a person who becomes prosperous by the power attained through his penance, gets his
intellect spoiled and does not even remember his ascetic life of penance.
(189) Such was the case with Arjuna because he banished the bravery which was established earlier
in his character and surrendered his mind to a sense of pity.
(190) Sirs, (Dnyaneshwar says) just as a person practising the chanting of mantras makes a grave
mistake which results in the ghost retaliating and attacking himself, so was the great influence of
confusion on the mind of the great archer, Arjuna.
(191) Thus the natural quality of steadfastness and determination left Arjuna and his mind was soft,
like the lunar-stone being affected by the moon-rays becomes liquid.
परयाऽऽिव ो िवषीदि नद पबवीत|
Thus being affected by pity and feeling sad-
(192) In this manner Partha being over-whelmed by too much compassion started to speak to
Achyuta, with a pensive mood.
