that burning thing, because it remains as fire only;
(693) Or, so long as there is no sunrise, there is darkness everywhere, but as soon as the sun rises
suddenly there is only light;
(694) Similarly, in the very realization of my True nature, the tide of pride subsides and when the
pride and the ego, disappear, duality also disappears.
(695) Then the existence as ‘‘he and me’’ is nothing but me only, or we can say, he homogeneously
merges into me and remains so united.
म कमक
ृ म परमो म ः संगविजतः|
िनवरः सवभूतेषु यः स मामेित पा डव
O Pandava, he who is the best person doing work for my sake, devoted to me, unattached, and has
no enmity towards all beings, comes unto me only. (55)
(696) He who performs all actions only for my sake, as service to me, and for whom, there is
nothing better than myself.
(697) He whose present actions and future, unknown actions and results are vested in and are of the
nature of me only, and who has named me as the fruit of his achievements in life.
(698) And he who has me always before his eyes, forgets the separate beings as
such and, therefore, having no animosity about anybody, he worships me in everything and
everywhere.
(699) O Pandava, in the case of such a devotee when his conditioning in the form of Sattwa, Rajas
and Tamas is also gone, he remains so, by becoming myself alone.’’
(700) Sanjaya said- ‘‘The Lord Shrikrishna, who contains all the world within him, and who is very
kind with compassion in his heart, talked in this way.
(701) On this, that son of Pandu, became enriched with Joy as his wealth; he is the only one in the
whole world who is wise in his total devotion to the feet of the Lord Shrikrishna,
(702) Saw both the aspects of the God carefully and he liked the small human form more than the
trendously vast universal form.
(703) But the Lord Shrikrishna did not value the liking of Arjuna, for, the small image of God is of a
limited power.
(704) In order to elucidate some points the bearer of 'Sharnga' bow, gave one or two examples to
prove his statement.
