devoted to the welfare of all beings, constantly worship with all their inner-self, the omnipresent,
imperishable, eternal, immovable, unmanifest, changeless Brahman, which cannot be grasped by
thought or defined- they also come to me. (3,4)
(40) And O Pandava, there are some others, who attain the state of experiencing
'I AM THAT', and try to embrace that which is the one indestructible Principle, which has no
divisions;
(41) That state is such where mind cannot touch it with its probing point of attention nor the vision of
intellect can enter, and it is needless to say that the sense organs will never find it reachable.
(42) Not only this, even mediation cannot catch it, and therefore, it is not available at any particular
place or found in any particular form.
(43) It is existing everywhere with all its totality at all times, but in the effort to think about it, the
power of thinking itself becomes exhausted.
(44) That is such about which we cannot say that "It becomes" nor can we say that "It does not
become; that which is 'not' and 'not that it is not.' So, there are no means at all by which it can be
achieved.
(45) That which does not change its place nor is removed, that which does not end nor becomes
dirty- but even that, some devotees have brought in their grasp.
(46) They have burnt all the groups of senses in the fire of acute asceticism, and they have by great
determination controlled their sense organs, while they are in the heat of their action.
(47) And by the force of restraint, they have turned their senses in the opposite direction, than their
usual outgoing tendency and imprisoned them in the cave of their heart.
(48) They have tightly shut the door of the Apana, and with effort arranged the critical posture of
Moolabandha, and made it into a bastion;
(49) They have snapped the ropes of expectations and hopes, they have crushed the stones of
cowardice, and dispelled the darkness of the sleep of ignorance.
(50) They have burnt the seven elements in the body with the flames of fire arising from the posture
of Vajrasana, and have charged fully the guns of the six inner wheels targeting the various
diseases in the body.
(51) And then, by keeping the torch of the brilliant serpent power standing on the Rootchakra or base
chakra, have illuminated the whole area of inner body up to the cerebrum, by its light.
(52) Then they have put the latch of restraint on all the nine doors of the senses, and kept open only
