the small flap door of the main central Path (Path of serpent-power).
(53) And further they have slain the rams of wishes, and twisted the neck of the demon Mahisha,
which is the mind, and have offered both of them as oblation to the goddess of power of the vital
breath, Chamunda.
(54) They have joined the Ida and Pingala, the nerve paths of Moon and Sun respectively and guiding
them with the help of unbeaten sound towards the seventeenth facet of nectar, taken the benefit of
the juice of life,
(55) And then reached the highest door of Brahman by travelling inwardly by mental attention
through the labyrinthane way of the middle channel which is like a delicate tube.
(56) Then by climbing the stair case in that tube or channel of the Sushumna (the Middle path
denoted by "M"), They have reached the cosmic heavens (Mahadakash) and entered into
Brahman.
(57) In this way, being of a steady mind, in equillibrium, they have adapted themselves to the hard
path of Yoga in order to attain realisation of Brahman.
(58) And in exchange of surrendering their sense of a separate ego, they have achieved the unity with
Brahman which is abstract. Dear Arjuna, these also come and merge into me.
(59) It is not that they gain something more by following the path of Yoga. Only more hard work is
what they have to undertake.
लेशोऽिधकतर तेषाम य ास चेतसाम्|
अ य ा िह गितदुःखं देहवि रवा यते
Of course, for those whose mind is attached to the unmanifest aspect, the strain is greater for
achieving unity with the unmanifest, because for beings who are living in a body, this is very difficult.
(5)
(60) Those who are attached to the effort of achieving that principle which is abstract, which is not
depending upon anything else, and which is the very source of total welfare of all beings, do not
follow the path of devotion.
(61) On their path they are attacked by the attraction of positions like that of the great Indra., and are
also confronted by the calamities in the disguise of prosperity, and occult powers.
(62) They are also subjected to nuisances of various kinds through desire and anger and they have to
fight with them on the strength of only the abstract Brahman.
