meditate on me with single minded devotion, and thus worship me- (6)
(76) They perform whatever actions are laid down to them according to their caste, with a happy
attitude, by their organs of action.
(77) They observe rules of conduct in performance of morally ordained duties, avoid prohibited
actions, and are burning down the binding quality of all actions by offering them to me.
(78) And in this way, O Arjuna, they surrender all actions to me, and thus make them as if non-
existent.
(79) Similarly, whatever other activities of the body, the speech and the mind are there, all of them
never go anywhere else except towards me.
(80) In this way those who constantly worship me, and by virtue of their meditating on me, have
become my permanent place of residence,
(81) And those who have limited all their transactions of so-called worldly business only to me, and
have ceased to have any business to do with such licensees like enjoyment of objects or
enjoyment of liberation which are simply very poor in themselves.
(82) How much can I praise those who have thus given to me everything including their separate
existence as Jeevas, their consciousness and their bodies? I have to meet everything which they
wish!
तेषामहं समु ता मृ युसंसारसागरात्|
भवािम न िचरा पाथ म यावेिशतचेतसाम्
O Partha, I become their saviour and lift them from the sea of wordly life and death because they
have their hearts merged into me. (7)
(83) In short, dear Arjuna, the wielder of the great bow, consider how beloved is the child to its
mother from whose womb it is born.
(84) Similarly I love my devotees, just as they are, and I have taken upon me, the born duty to protect
them by freeing them from death.
(85) Even if this may not be the case, to imagine that my devotees have to worry about their worldly
life is absurd. Will the wife of a really capable rich person beg for a small amount of rice?
(86) Similarly my devotee is as if my fiancee. Then, am I not responsible for him? Will I not be
ashamed if I do not help him?
(87) When I see the whole creation of all beings harassed by the monstrous waves of births and
