the concept of "you and me"? Please tell me.
(100) So just as the light of the lamp disappears when we extinguish the lamp with the wind of a fold
of cloth or just as the sunlight disappears after sunset;
(101) Or just as when the life force rises above by leaving the body, the sense organs also follow it;
Similarly when mind and body come up to me, the pride, the ego also automatically follows.
(102) Therefore, if you should put your mind and intellect in me, and keep them fixed there, you will
attain my all-pervading form.
(103) There is no exception to this rule. I tell you this, taking the oath, swearing by my own name.
अथ िच ं समाधातुं न श नोिष मिय ि थरम्|
अ यासयोगेन ततो मािम छा ुं धनंजय
If at all you are not able to keep your mind steady in me, then try by constant study, O Dhananjaya,
to attain unity with me. (9)
(104,105) Or if you are not able to offer to me your consciousness with the mind and intellect, you
can do one thing. Atleast for some moments everyday turn your mind and all your attention to me.
(106) Then for those moments, when your mind is happily engaged with me, it will have no liking for
the sense objects.
(107) And your mind will come out of the worldly matters very quickly, just as the rivers start
drying up, when rainy season is over.
(108) When this will happen, just like the moon wanig every night in the darker fort-night, gradually
disappears on the last night;
(109) Your mind, gradually withdrawing itself from the worldly affairs, and slowly entering into me,
dear Arjuna, will become one with me finally.
(110) You see, this is what is called Abhyas Yoga, or the yoga of study. There is nothing in the
world, which cannot be achieved by this yoga of study.
(111) My dear, on the strength of this constant study and practice, some people can walk in the air
and some are able to tame the wild tigers and serpents.
(112) Some digest poison and some walk on the surface of the sea, while some have attained
mastery in Vedas.
(113) Therefore, you will understand that there is nothing difficult for study and practice. You should
