सवकमफल यागं ततः क
ु यता मवान्
If at all by being united mentally with me through Yoga, you are not able to do this, then
controlling yourself with right effort, you should give up the fruit of all your actions. (11)
(125) O the son of Pandu, if you cannot surrender your action to me in this way, then worship me.
(126) If you find it difficult to remember me by your mind and intellect, both before action and at the
end of actin, then let that effort he kept aside.
(127) You may leave aside my constant meditation in this way, but your intellect must be very much
alert and awake in regard to the control of senses.
(128) And then as and when every action takes place, you should give up the fruit of each and every
such action.
(129) Just as the trees and creepers let the ripe fruits fall on the ground, so you should give up and
let go the fruits of all actions, which are completed.
(130) Not only this, do not bother to have an attitude of remembering me, and offering your actions to
me. You should leave the fruits without having anything to do with them, so that they will go into
the big void.
(131) You should consider your actions as futile as something seen in a dream, just like rain fallen
on dry stone or seed sown in fire.
(132) Just as nobody has any sexual desire about his own daughter, so you should be desireless
about all your actions.
(133) All your actions should disappear in the big void, just as the flames of fire get faded in the sky
above.
(134) Dear Arjuna, this Yoga of giving up the fruit of action appears to be easy, still it is the highest
and the greatest among all Yogas.
(135) That action whichever is thus lost by giving up its fruit, does not create anything nor does it
grow into chain of effects, just as bamboo-trees do no grow further, after they produce flowers.
(136) Similarly with the end of this body, there is no further incarnation any more, or we can say that
the whole chain of births and deaths becomes totally cut.
(137) Dear Arjuna, by climbing the steps of constant practice, one can attain knowledge, and by
knowledge we can reach the stage where mediation is possible.
