(148) Similarly he has friendliness towards all the beings, with a sense of unity and is himself the
mother of kindness.
(149) Further he does not know the language that 'I am this and this is mine, etc.' and he has no
separate sensation of pleasure and pain.
(150) He has the quality of forgiveness as great as that of the earth, and he fondles contentment on his
lap like a loving child.
संतु ः सततं योगी यता मा ढिन यः|
म यिपतमनोबुि य मे भ ः स मे िपयः
My devotee who is always contented, who is a Yogi, who has good self control, who has
firmness of will, and who has devoted his mind and intellect to me is very dear to me (14)
(151) Just like the sea which is full always, even if there is no rain, my devotee is always contented
without cause.
(152) With full determination he keeps his mind perfectly under control and by his example people
are sure that there is some truth in firmness of will power.
(153) On one common seat in his heart the Jeeva and the Paramatman happily sit in their glory.
(154) He is thus rich in his Yoga and offers his mind and intellect to me, being completely absorbed
in me.
(155) As he is well-established in Yoga both inwardly by his mind and also outwardly in his
behavior, he has deep love for me in which he is merged happily.
(156) Arjuna, he is the devotee, he is the Yogi, and he is dear to me as if he is my loving wife and I
am her dear husband.
(157) But the quality of his love for me cannot be clearly described even by saying that he is dear to
me as my very life.
(158) The nature of our love is something beyond logic, a thing fantastic in itself, and it cannot be put
in words, but I have somehow said something because my faith inspires me.
(159) And that is why this simile of the conjugal love of husband and wife came on my lips;
otherwise, it is quite impossible to describe the glory of love.
(160) But Arjuna, I will better stop here; because as soon as I broached the subject of my beloved
devotee, my love of my devotees has suddenly been doubled.
