who is having no mental worries, and being a devotee of mine, who drops all kinds of intentional
planning of actions, is dear to me. (16)
(172) Dear Arjuna, this devotee is such that desire does not get entry in his mind and by his
existence, happiness experiences high tide.
(173) The sacred place of Kashi is famous for giving an opportunity of liberation to pilgrims, but it
is limited only to those who die there.
(174) The mountain Himalaya is famous for destroying all sins, but in climbing on it, there is every
likelihood of our meeting death. But the purity of saints is not of this kind.
(175) The waters of Ganges are pure, and they dispel the sins and also the heat, but we have to bathe
there in which there is fear of drowning.
(176) But even if this river of devotion is so deep, that it cannot be fathomed, the devotee is not
drowned in it and becomes free of birth ad death while living only.
(177) Just imagine, how great must be the purity of the saints by whose vicinity, the Ganges becomes
pure and sacred!
(178) So, one who has become the helper of sacred places by his own purity and has banished every
iota of dirt from his mind for away.
(179) And who is pure like the Sun, both inwardly and outwardly and knows the deepest secret of
philosophy, just as a man born with his feet in front, is able to see the treasures hidden
underground.
(180) His mind is as all-pervading as the sky, and remains equally aloof.
(181) He has escaped from the troubles of worldly life like a lucky-bird, which has escaped the
arrow of a hunter, and now he has become engrossed in total desirelessness.
(182) He has no worry of any kind because he is always enjoying the bliss of the Self and just like a
dead body, he does not feel ashamed about anything.
(183) He has absolutely no egoistic drive to start any action and just as the fire is extinguished, when
there is no fuel,
(184) He has natural peace in his mind, which is a sign of worthiness of freedom.
(185) Dear Arjuna, one who has reached thus far on the path of unity with Brahman, and has reached
the other shore of duality;
