(186) Or one who maintains his duality in order to keep enjoying the bliss of constantly experiencing
fresh freedom, and divides himself, becoming a disciple or a servant by one part,
(187) And the other part of himself is called by him as I or God, so that he exhibits by his example
the great happiness in devotion, for teaching others.
(188) We are having great attachment to such a devotee, and he is the object of our meditation.
Perhaps I may say that only when such a devotee is seen, then I am satisfied.
(189) It is for him that we assume a body having the qualities like Sattwa etc.; for him we perform
actions and live here. Actually he is so dear to us that we are ready to place our life at his
service.
यो न यित न ेि न शोचित न कां ित|
शुभाशुभप र यागी भि मान् यः स मे िपयः
He who is not overjoyed, nor hates, and does not mourn nor desires; he who does not get affected
by anything either auspicious or inauspicious, and who is a real devotee is dear to me. (17)
(190) He who does not value anything equal to self-realization and, therefore, does not get
overjoyed by any pleasurable experience.
(191) He who has identified himself totally with the universe and has, therefore, naturally lost any
discriminative attitude, and thus his hatred or dislike is gone.
(192) He who knows that whatever is truly his own, cannot be lost even at the end of a Kalpa, and,
therefore, does not lament over any worldly thing which is lost.
(193) And he who has in himself that highest thing beyond which nothing is more desirable, and,
therefore, has no aspiration for anything in the world.
(194) Just as in the Sun, there is no difference of day or night; he has no worry about anything
defective or good;
(195) He who is thus himself the self-knowledge in person and over and above, he who is having
devotion towards me;
(196) He is such that there is nobody else as dear to me as he is, which is a fact, and I say this
swearing by you only.
समः शतौ च िमते च तथा मानापमानयोः|
शीतो णसुखदुःखेषु सदा संगिवविजतः
