(208) Treating blame and praise with the quiet forbearance, as only one thing and not two different
things, he conducts his life with the same equipoise either in society or in a forest.
(209) He does not talk, either the truth or the lie, and does not fail to experience the state of Brahman
continuously, without deviation.
(210) He who is not elated by gain nor depressed by loss, just as the sea which does not dry up even
if there is no rain.
(211) And as the wind has no home to take rest, he does not get himself any place as his house.
(212) Just as the whole sky is the eternal place of rest for the wind, he has the whole world as the
resting place.
(213) He who thinks with certainty that this universe is his house, or he himself rather becomes the
universe.
(214) O Parth, over and above this if he is devoted to me, I hold him on my head as a crown.
(215, 216) It is but right that one must bow down before the highest person of all, but to know why I
whose feet the whole three worlds wash and honour that water by placing it on the head, give all
this respect to my devotee, one must look up to the Lord Shankar who may give its explanation.
(217) But let this argument be set aside, because when I praise the Lord Mahesha, it will be
indirectly my own praise.
(218) Therefore I do not refer to the Lord Shankar - "Thus said the husband of Rm¢(Laxmi)-" But
I only say that I hold that devotee with great love, on my head."
(219) This devotee achieves the fourth achievement of life, which is liberation, and
with it, enters the path of devotion, and gives that liberation to the whole world.
(220) He holds in his hand the absolute aloneness, which is Brahman and uses
liberation as a stock to be exchanged with others, but he is so humble that like
water, he accepts the lowest place.
(221) Therefore, we bow to this devotee, hold him like a crown on our head, and
even suffer his kick on our chest as ornament.
(222) We decorate our speech by praising his good qualities, and wear the ear-rings
of listening to his virtues.
(223) Though I have no eyes like ordinary people, I become one having eyes, to see
