(235) Those men, who have only one hobby of listening to the stories of devotion are themselves
like the sacred place or pilgrimage, and the spiritual source of energy.
(236) We will always mediate on them. They are the object of offering our worship and there is
nothing as dear to us except them.
(237) To them, we are addicted, they are the treasures of all our valuables and we are not happy
unless we have such devotees with us.
(238) Dear Arjuna, we worship like gods, those people who recite the stories of the life of such
great devotees."
(239) In this way, Mukunda, who is the source of happiness for his devotees and who is the basic
root of all the world, said to Arjuna." Thus reporting to Dhritarashtra, Sanjaya said,
(240) "O His Majesty, this way, the Lord Shrikrishna was personally talking to Arjuna. This Lord
Shrikrishna is blameless, pure, kind to all the people, protector of those who surrender
themselves to him.
(241) He always helps the gods and it is his favourite play to take care of all the people and
maintain the whole world.
(242) His fame is really very pure. He is generous beyond limits, very straight- minded, his power is
limitless, and he controls easily those who are very strong.
(243) He is compassionate to his devotees, affectionate to pious people, a staunch protector of truth,
and the treasure-house of all the skills and arts.
(244) He is the emperor of his devotees and the chief of Vaikuntha; and his fortunate disciple Arjuna
was listening to his teaching.
(245) I will tell you further story, which you may please listen. "-This was what Sanjaya said.
(246) Saint Dnyaneshwar says- "The same interesting story which Sanjaya was telling to
Dhritarashtra, is now being told by bringing it on to the path of Marathi language. Please listen.
(247) Dnyandeva, disciple of Shri Nivrittinath prays to his listeners- "Sir! Swami Nivrittinath has
taught us that we should offer overselves to you, the saints and should serve you with devotion.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे भि योगो नाम ादशोऽ यायः
Thus, in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of knowledge of Brahman, in the
