complexities of arguments all the thought processes have been confused.
(18) Nobody knows who is the owner of this field but the enticement of their ego is so strong that in
every house, people get headache while arguing about this subject.
(19) There is a great war-front of arguments in the Vedas to defend themselves from atheists, seeing
which the heretics started a ballyhoo of heckling against them.
(20) The heretics say to Vedas- "What you say is in vain. It has no substance. All your talk is a
delusive network of words. If you want to counter our statement, we are ready to take an oath!
(21) Embracing the doctrine of not believing Vedas, some have shaved their heads, but in the
confusion of their own arguments they are non-plus.
(22) Fearing that death will make this field a useless thing, yogis set about their penance.
(23) Being half-dead by the consternation about death, the yogis retired to forests far away from
people and undertook observance of various kinds of rules of conduct.
(24) In order to fathom the nature of this field, the Lord Shankar left the kingdom of Kailasa and went
to live in a cemetary, by seeing entrapments in all other places.
(25) Deciding to be free of all botherations, he became naked and seeing that cupid is the most
deceptive ensnarer, he burned him and turned him to ashes.
(26) In order to be able to know and speak about the nature of this field, the king of Satyaloka
(Brahma, the Creator) has got four mouths but he could not know for sure about this.
ऋिषिभबहधा गीतं छ दोिभबहधा पृथक
् |
ब सूतपदै ैव हेतुमि िविनि तैः
The nature of this field is poetically described by sages in various 'chhandas' (meters) and it is
also described with certain purposeful exactness in the "Brahmasootras" (Vedanta philosophy). (4)
(27) Some say that Jeeva is the owner of this field, and vital breath, (Prana) is the lessee appointed
by him here.
(28) In the house of this Prana, there are four brothers, namely Apana, Vyana, Samana and Udana,
who are labourers and the mind is the manager to govern them.
(29) This manager uses the wooden box to move the earth from this field by employing ten bullocks
of ten organs and takes work from them day and night.
(30) That earth, being made up of sense-objects, the humidity of performance of duty is dried up, and
