missing thus what is the right action, he sows seeds of injustice and puts fertilizer of wrong
actions.
(31) Then the crop of sins is ripe according to the seeds and fertilizers resulting in tremendous
suffering to the Jeeva for many births.
(32) If, however, instead of doing this the humidity of right action is kept up and the seeds of good
deeds are sown, the Jeeva enjoys happiness for hundreds of births.
(33) Some others say that it is not true that this field is owned by Jeeva. You should ask us all the
information about this field.
(34) Sirs, Jeeva is just a traveller, who comes and stays in this field temporarily and Prana is a paid
servant, who remains awake and guards it.
(35) The Anadi Prakriti (Beginningless Nature) whom the Sankhyas describe with adoration, is the
real user of this field.
(36) This field is a house and it is her household occupation. Therefore, the house-servants work for
her.
(37) The three original workers are the three Gunas (Qualities), who cultivate this field and they are
the three sons of this Prakriti.
(38) The Rajas quality sows the seeds, the Sattwa maintains the crop and the Tamas quality collects
the grain and finishes the job.
(39) Then the yard of Mahat principle is made ready and the grains are cleaned by one single
bullock, who is Time. By now the evening of the night of 'unmanifest' is at hand.
(40) At this juncture, some other wise people raised an objection and said, "All these arguments of
yours are very recent."
(41) Sirs, the original is the Brahman, which is the principle beyond everything. What value has
Prakriti there? To listen to your argument about this field and Prakriti is like listening to a
meaningless babble.
(42) The real thing is that in the bed-room of the void of Brahman, on the plank of the state of
merger, the original "Will" was asleep.
(43) He suddenly woke up and as he was very much given to brisk activity, he prepared the shape of
the universe according to his vim.
(44) The barren land of the asolute Brahman was equal to the three worlds. But it assumed the shape
