and colour by the action of this original will.
(45) Then the whole vast field of five great elements was divided into four clearly marked divisions,
which are the streams of creation namely creation through placenta, creation through sweat, and
through eggs and through earth.
(46) Afterwards the homogeneous collection of the five elements was broken up into each element
separately and the things and beings consisting of these five elements were created.
(47) Afterwards the bricks and stones of actions and inactions were collected and used for building
bund-walls on both sides and the space in between was turned into a jungle from the barren land.
(48) In order that coming in and going out should go on in that region, two tunnels were dug, one as
birth and the other as death. The arrangements of these tunnels were so done that both of them had
one end as the Absolute Brahman and this was planned by that primary will only.
(49) Then that will joined forces with the ego and by using intellect as the medium, it so arranged
that the whole universe should go on working hard upto the end of its life.
(50) So, in this way, the primary will appeared in the absolute Brahman, as a sprout, and that will is,
therefore the root of all this universal phenomenon.
(51) In this way, the propounders of the philosophy of 'basic primary will', gave out the gems of their
opinions, but some other people attacked their statements and said, "Gentlemen, you really seem
to be very clever!
(52) If we have to conceive of a bedroom in the town of absolute Brahman, then why not state that
Prakriti has such a bedroom itself according to the philosophy of Saankhyas?
(53) But let it be. It is not true. Now, sirs, you should not follow them. Please listen to the real
genesis of the field which we are going to tell you.
(54) Who has filled heaps of clouds in the sky? Who holds hanging in the sky the galaxies of stars?
(55) Who has stretched the ceiling of the sky and when? Who has ordered that the wind should
always blow?
(56) Who has sown all the hair? who has filled the sea? who made the rain?
(57) As all these are natural phenomena, the field (the body) is also naturally existing of its own
accord. It is not the property of any one. It belongs to him, who works for it, not to any others.
(58) While the propounders of the theory of natural existence were thus talking, some others raised
their argument vehemently- "If you say so, why is it that only the death as time should have total
