इ छा ेषः सुखं दुःखं संघात ेतना धृितः|
एत ेतं समासेन सिवकारमुदा तम्
The five greater elements, the ego, the intellect, the unmanifest (primordial matter), the ten organs
(of perception and action), the mind, and the five objects of senses (sound, touch, colour, taste and
smell (5)
Also, desire, aversion, pleasure, pain, the physical body, consciousness, firmness, thus is stated
briefly the Kshetra or the field, together with its modifications. (6).
(72) In it are the five elements, ego, intellect, the unmanifest and the ten organs.
(73) Further one mind, ten objects of senses, pleasure, pain, aversion, unified-ness, desire.
(74) Energy, the holding capacity- all these make up the field- this I have just told you.
(75) Now I will tell you in details what are the great elements, what are the objects and how the
organs function, taking for consideration each one separately.
(76) Know that earth, water, fire, air and sky are the five elements.
(77) Just as dream state is hidden in the waking state or just as moon is invisible on the day of
Amavasya (the day of dark night).
(78) Or just as in a boy, youth is hidden and just as fragrance is hidden in a bud of flower.
(79) Or just as fire is dormant in the wood, it is hidden in the Nature.
(80) And just as a hidden disease in the deeper elements of the body is waiting for conducive
conditions of the body for its being active, and as soon as there is chance, it spreads throughout
the body;
(81) Similarly when all these five elements come together and take the shape of this body, there is
one factor which compels the body to be actively dancing with various desires- which is the
'ego'.
(82) The ways of this ego are strange. Ignorant people are not affected by it, but it catches the men of
knowledge and hugs them in its hold and makes them dance with pride in all the troubles.
(83) Now dear Arjuna, I shall tell you those signs by which the characteristics of inellect will be
known by you.
(84) When the sexual etc., desires become very strong, the objects of enjoyment enter through the
sense-organs.
