(116) O Arjuna, that is called mind, about which there is no doubt at all. Now please listen to the
various objects of the mind and the senses.
(117) Touch, sound, shape, taste and smell are the five objects of the sense organs.
(118) Through these five doors, knowledge runs out just as a calf, seeing green pasture, runs out of
control.
(119, 120) Now to speak vowels, consonants, and accents, to hold something, to drop something, to
walk and to answer nature's call are the five functions of the organs of actions, and by
constructing a dais of these, action becomes manifest.
(121) There are, thus ten objects related to the body. Now what is desire, will also be told.
(122) That emotion which gets disturbed as soon as any happening in the past is remembered or if
any word about it is heard,
(123) That emotion, which holds the hand of desire and gets ready, when there is contact of the
senses with their objects,
(124) That emotion by awakening which mind wanders freely and the sense organs fall headlong into
those things where they should not go, –
(125) Dear Arjuna, that emotion by the force of which the intellect becomes maddened and involved
as an addict in varous objects of enjoyment, is called the 'desire'.
(126) And know that emotion as aversion or anger, which arises by seeing that the desired object
cannot be obtained, and the mind in vain, adamantly hankers for it.
(127) Now listen to what is happiness. It is that sensation by which the Jeeva forgets everything else.
(128) That which ties down the speech and the body definitly and at the same time makes one forget
the awareness of the physical body-
(129) That is happiness, which cripples the vitality as soon as it is born but gives double benefit to a
person who is pious by nature.
(130) It fondles all the attitudes and functions of all the organs and makes them sleep peacefully on
the bed of the heart.
(131) Not only this but that state in which the Jeeva experiences that it has found the way to self-
realisation, is happiness.
(132) And O Arjuna, know definitely that the state in which such combination or attainment does not
