take place is sorrow, or pain.
(133) There is no happiness in the company of projection of desire and doubt, but when these
disappear, the happiness is there as the basic thing and thus the happiness and sorrow depend
respectively on absence of these contradictory thoughts and the presence thereof.
(134) Now I shall tell you about 'Energy'. This energy remains in the body without attachment and is
aloof and disinterested, being the quality of the spirit.
(135) It is that state of awakening, which is permeating thoughout the body from hair to nail normally
and which is existing unbroken in all the three states of wakefulness, dream and sleep.
(136) This energy brings freshness to the mind, intellect and other inner facets of consciousness,
This energy becomes the glory of the season of spring for the garden of Prakriti.
(137) Dear Arjuna, there is no doubt that it is energy (Chetana) which is present always in both the
living beings and lifeless things to a more or less degree, according to the calibre of the thing.
(138) Dear Arjuna, the king is not acquainted with each and every soldier in his army, but it is by his
orders that the enemy is defeated; or when the moon is complete with all her phases, the sea
automatically gets high tide.
(139) Or when magnet is near, the iron automatically moves, and when the sun rises, people get up
naturally.
(140) Or, for example the female tortoise does not touch its young ones but gives nourishment to
them only by looking at them.
(141) Dear Arjuna, this energy, in the same manner gives life to the lifeless by living in the body
together with the Atman.
(142) This is the description of energy. Now listen to the signs of courage or holding power.
(143) These five elements are natural enemies amongst themselves. It is never seen that the earth is
not dissolved by water.
(144) The water is dried up by fire, the fire is extinguished by strong wind, and the wind is easily
gulped by the sky.
(145) Similarly the sky is not mixed with any element but it penetrates every one and still remains
aloof.
(146) Thus these five elements are not agreeing with each other; still, in this body they live together
with unity.
