try to contain the sky in themselves.
(163) They avoid being attracted to prosperity and occult powers and undertake most difficult task
of practising Yoga.
(164) They go beyond the mountains of penance, consider worthless crores of sacrifices by fire and
turn upside down the creepers of ritualistic performances.
(165) Or jump head - long in the path of devotion or enter the narrow sub - way of Sushumna. (The
central nervous path).
(166) In this way, for the attainment of this knowledge, the hopeful desires of great sages remain
waiting in the foliage of the tree of Vedas,
(167) O Arjuna, with a hope that some day in future perhaps, there will be blessing of this
knowledge, many births are spent in service to the Guru.
(168) When this knowledge is attained, it destroys confusion and effects the unity of the soul and the
spirit. (Jeeva and Shiva).
(169) This knowledge shuts the door of sense organs, breaks the legs of extrovert movement and
relieves the pain and sorrow of the mind.
(170) This is the knowledge by which there is drought as regards sense of duality and there is plenty
of the feeling of unity.
(171) This knowledge destroys the support of the feeling of arrogance, swallows even the deep
delusion and does not allow scope for the language of – "I am this and that is another person."
(172) This knowledge uproots the attachment to the worldly life, cleanses the mud of wishes and
hopeful projections of thought and easily embraces the most difficult object of perception, which
is the principle of Paramatman.
(173) When this knowledge arises, the vital energy which directs the function of the universe
becomes weak and paralytic.
(174) By the light of this knowledge the eyes of intellect are opened, and the soul relaxes happily on
the soft bed of joy.
(175) This knowledge is thus, very purifying and by its power, the mind, which is sullied by various
defects is cleaned.
(176) By this knowledge, the disease of consumption, which generally affects in the form of concept
that I am Jeeva, is removed from the Atman.
