(177) Though it is not possible to explain in words this knowledge, which we are commenting upon;
but it is to be understood by intelligence only because without it, ordinary eyes cannot perceive
that knowledge.
(178) But the wonderful thing is that once through the intellect, it is properly understood and once it
starts to govern the whole body, it becomes visible even to ordinary eyes by the activities of all
the organs in outward life.
(179) Just as the advent of spring season is guessed easily by the freshness of tender leaves of the
trees, similarly this knowledge can be guessed about by the functions of various organs.
(180) My dear, the root of trees come up from the water deep under the earth, but its effect is seen by
the soft tender leaves of branches above the ground.
(181) Or just as the soft fertility of the earth is surmised by the delicate sprouts coming up; or the
nobility of a cultured man is understood by observing his manners.
(182) Or just as the intensity of affectionate love can be judged by the eagerness in the act of
welcome for the guests, and a man of saintly and peaceful character can be known by observing
his quiet and graceful countenance.
(183) Or when camphor is ready in the plant of camphor, it can be experienced by its fragrance or
when a lamp is kept in a glass, its light is steady and brilliant in the room everywhere.
(184) In the same way, when there is this knowledge in the mind and heart, there are outward signs
thereof, which I am going to tell you. Please listen.
अमािन वमदि भ वमिहंसा ाि तराजवम्|
आचाय पासनं शौचं थैयमा मिविनगहः
Absence of pride, absence from hypocrisy, non-violence, forbearance, straightness of body,
speech and mind, devout service of the teacher, purity of mind and body, steadiness of mind and
control of body, senses, as well as the mind. (Signs of knowledge). (7).
(185) This man of knowledge does not like to be totally involved in anything worldly. He finds it
very awkward to show off his goodness in public.
(186) When his virtues are being praised, when his good name is loudly proclaimed and when
greatness and worthiness are being stuck to him by people –
(187) He becomes so much vexed that he resembles a deer caught in the net of the hunter or while
swimming he is caught in a whirlpool.
