(203,204) Freedom from false pretexts amounting to freedom from hypocrisy is such that, just as a
miser does not reveal where he has concealed his treasure even if he is threatened to be killed,
similarly a man does no utter a single word about any good deeds which he has done.
(205) Arjuna, an untamable cow holds up her milk or a prostitute hides her old age,
(206) A rich man stranded in a forest does not reveal his richness; or a lady covers her body
modestly.
(207) Or a farmer covers the seeds sown by him. Similarly this man hides whatever charity etc; is
done by him.
(208) He does not make a fuss about his body, does not go out to flatter other people and does not
talk about his religious acts;
(209) He does not reveal his good deeds done for obliging others, does not show off his learning and
education and does not sell his knowledge in order to earn fame in the world.
(210) He is very economic in spending anything for personal use, but does not hesitate to spend any
amount for the cause of religion.
(211) In his home there is shortage of many provisions and he is not very strong physically but in the
matter of generosity he may compete with the divine wish-tree "Kalpataru"!
(212) In short, he is noble in religious matters, generous in giving in charity, very clever in
philosophical discussions but simpleton in the mundane affairs.
(213) The trunck of a banana tree is very soft and pliant but it gives very rich and wholesome fruits.
(214) The structure of a cloud is so thin that it is blown easily by the wind but it is capable of
showers of hail-stones.
(215) Similarly though he is expert in the ways of spiritual endeavour he is very meek in the worldly
affairs.
(216) Arjuna, know that he in whom the above qualities are quite evident, is a man who holds
knowledge in his palms.
(217) So, this is the recognizing sign of absence of hypocrisy. Now, please listen to the quality of
non-violence.
(218) First of all, you should know that the quality of non-violence is defined and described by
different people in various ways.
