(219) But all those descriptions are so irrelevant that it is like erecting a compound fence around a
tree, by first cutting down its branches and keeping only a thwarted trunk.
(220) Or like cutting our arms and boiling them to make a dish of food and then satisfying our hunger,
or by demolishing the temple itself and constructing a surrounding line of seats around the god,
(221) In another way, the philosophy of Meemansa which lays down the code of performing rituals
and sacrifices, propounds that violence is to be used to ensure non-violence.
(222) In that system, when all the people are faced with tremendous vicissitudes due to drought,
people are advised to perform sacrifices to invoke rain.
(223) In that sacrifices, the slaying of goats etc. is advised. How can you reach the other bank of life
of non-violence through these killings?
(224) How can non-violence grow if one sows only violence? But my dear! See the wonderful
daring of these performers of sacrifices!
(225) And O Pandava, the Ayurveda which advocates to kill animals in order to prepare medicines
for human beings is also of the same evil category.
(226) In Ayurveda, seeing human beings suffering heavily due to various ailments, diagnostic
research is made in order to alleviate the suffering.
(227) But in that research they uprooted certain medicinal shrubs and leaves; and skins and roots of
some other vegetation were cut and snatched.
(228) Some trees were cut horizontally, some trees were deprived of their barks and some tender
parts of some fruits etc. were boiled, to obtain decoctions.
(229) O the wielder of a great bow! Trees do not mean any harm to any being, but their trunks were
vertically cut to derive the sticky juices from them! In this way the trees were squeezed dry by
taking out their life-juices in order to heal human beings.
(230) And it is a practice to cut open certain animals to take out biliary contents from their livers
and the lives of other people are saved from their ailments.
(231) It is like demolishing the permanent well-built houses and constructing temples by using that
material, or like deceiving people in bad trade practices and throw open lavish dinner parties.
(232) It is like pulling the covers over the head by leaving our feet exposed, or like demolishing the
house and constructing a pandal in the front yard.
(233) Or it is like using fire for heating in cold season, by burning the blankets useful to cover
