ourselves or like the bathing of an elephant which is futile because he immediately puts on his
body dirty water from the pond, by his trunk.
(234) Or like building the cattle shed by selling the bullocks or purchasing a cage after freeing the
parrot. Is it a wise action or a jest? We cannot even laugh at this stupidity.
(235) Some people strain water in a strainer or filter, as an act to prevent killing of tiny life-forms
but they die in the very process of filteration.
(236) Some do not eat even the particles of grain, but when they die of hunger, it is itself a killing,
and act of violence to oneself.
(237) So, in the path of ritualistic performance, the so-called non-violence is itself violence, which
truth you should recognize by your good mind.
(238) When we thought about the quality of non-violence and uttered that word, we were inspired to
explain clearly the core of that doctrine.
(239) Thinking that it will not be proper to avoid speaking about it, we told you these defects in it
and we expect that you should understand it in this context.
(240) Further, dear Arjuna of the beautiful crown, the subject of non-violence is connected with this
false attitude towards it, in the minds of so many people. Otherwise why should we go astray and
describe it?
(241) And O the wielder of a great bow, in order to explain properly our own opinion, it is
necessary to analyse other opinions.
(242) So, this is the reason of the explanation so far given. Now we will resume our argument about
our own opinion.
(243) When nonviolence is established in us, the inner knowledge becomes manifest. That is the sign
of real harmlessness, which will be explained now.
(244) Just as the quality of gold is known by the use of the particular testing stone, so, the fact about
inner non-violence is recognized by outward behaviour.
(245) When there is the meeting of mind and the self-knowledge, this non-violence arises in the
mind. O the crowned one! You will please listen to that only.
(246, 247) Consider how a crane stands in the shallow water. It does not disturb the water even by
creating a small ripple. It does not disturb the existing chain of waves on the surface. It does not
agitate the pool of water; it swiftly, delicately puts its thin foot in it, keeping a sharp eye for fish.
So, all carefulness is observed by the crane.
