(248) Or think how a blue-beetle puts its tiny feet in the lotus so delicately that even the pollen is not
hurt.
(249) Similarly, to walk with extreme tenderness; with feet wrapped in compassion. being aware
that there are little life-forms attached to every speck of dust;
(250) To walk in such a way that the direction in which one is going is filled with one's kindness and
the path covered with compassion, and we are ready to surrender our own life to save the life of
others.
(251) Dear Arjuna, this tender-footed walking cannot be described in words and it cannot be fully
appreciated by any measurements of softness.
(252) Consider how much the teeth of a mother-cat may be hurting (if at all) the neck of its young
ones while it lifts them to take them from one place to other;
(253) Consider how much tender the eyes of mother would be when she is waiting for her child to
return home.
(254) Or consider how much the little whip of a wind created by moving the petals of a lotus, will
hurt our eyelids or pupils.
(255) He puts his feet on the ground with such care that the life-forms below his feet would feel their
touch comfortable.
(256) While walking slowly like this, if he sees some weevils or insects on the ground ahead he
retraces his steps sufficiently.
(257) He thinks- "If I will walk briskly, the great being would be disturbed in his sleep or would be
hurt in his delicate body.
(258) With this concept of kindness he retreats to some extent but never harms any being.
(259) He does not even trample upon grass! What of other living beings? There is no question of his
going ahead without taking cognizance of any living being in his way.
(260) Just as an ant cannot go beyond the mountain Meru, and just as a fly cannot cross the ocean, he
also cannot surpass any living being on his path, by hurting it by his foot.
(261) When the man walks so tenderly that it is having flowers of grace, and bearing fruits of
compassion, you will find that in his speech, pity has become incarnated.
(262) Even he breathes very softly, his face looks very pleasant and his teeth look like goodness
having sprouts!
