(263) First, affection oozes out from his mind, and letters follow that affection and become manifest.
First, the blessings are expressed and then his words.
(264) Generally he does not speak and if at all he talks, the words are such that they will not harm
anybody.
(265) When occasion arises, he may talk at length, but it does not touch anybody's sensitive mind and
nobody has any doubts in his mind.
(266) He is afraid that by his talk there will be some awkwardness or someone may be afraid or get
insulted and challenge his statements.
(267) Thus, with the thought that nobody should feel awkward, nobody should feel harassment and
nobody should raise his brows in annoyance, he generally does not speak.
(268) If somebody entreats him to talk and he sets about speaking, it is so sweet that the listener feels
that he is his mother or father.
(269) It is as if the Brahman in the shape of sound, is put in a crucible, or the water of Ganges is
slowed down or the devoted wife of a husband is matured in oldage. It is so pure and kind.
(270) His measured, mild and pleasant words are like ripples of nectar.
(271) The vices like counter-arguments, adamancy, cruel harmful words which irritate the listener,
ridicule, deception and pungent remarks;
(272) Contradiction, irritable dialogue, bitter retorts, creation of false hope, raising futile doubts,
cunning talk, and such bad qualities are discarded by his speech.
(273) And O Arjuna, his eye-brows are not knitted or twisted. They are clear;
(274) Because he feels that in every body there is Brahman, and it may perhaps be hurt, he never
stares hard at anyone.
(275) Thus, his eyes are normally very kind in their glance, but if at all he opens his eyes and with
the overflowing grace looks straight at anybody,
(276) Then just as the birds Chakora are satisfied by the nectar in the moonlight though there are no
visible drops of the nectar in the moonlight,
(277) So kindly he looks at that man, that even the tortoise cannot be equal to that tenderness.
(278) His glance towards others is tender like this and his hands are also similarly delicate.
