(279) Just as the desires of Siddhas are all fulfilled; and, therefore, they are quiet; similarly his
hands are without any works to do.
(280) His hands are inactive without any work to do and appear as if attached to his body only, just
as a person, who is not able, takes initiation of Sanyasa or there is no fuel and the fire is also
extinguished, or a person, who is dumb observes a vow or silence.
(281) Similarly, his hands have no work to do, because they are belonging to a man who is totally
inactive.
(282) He does not move his hands suddenly with the fear that the wind will be shocked or the nail
will hurt the space.
(283) He does not do anything like warding off a fly from his body or to remove by finger any small
insect troubling his eyes or to threaten an animal or a bird.
(284) It is not necessary to tell these things. It is needless to say that he does not touch a weapon
when he does not even take in hand a stick or rod.
(285) He does not rotate even a lotus in his hands or does not playfully throw a flowery garland up
and catch it again because he fears that somebody may get hurt.
(286) He does not rub his body fearing that his body hair will be disturbed, and does not cut his
nails and allows them to grow into curls.
(287) In this way, for his hands there is absence of any job and if at all there is occasion to move
them, he only folds them in salutation.
(288) He may lift his hands only to convey by sign that somebody may not fear or moves his hands to
lift somebody who has fallen down or to caress somebody lovingly who has some suffering.
(289) This also he does as an exception, but in these actions, the cool kindness which is evident
cannot be experienced in the moon-rays also.
(290) His hands fondle pet animals with such delicacy and love that the touch is like the soft breeze
with fragrance of sandalwood.
(291) His hands are always empty and just like the cool branches of sandalwood tree, are not
useless though they do not give fruit, they are also not useless because their coolness is eternal.
(292) Now enough of this detailed description. The palm of such a man is as tender, soft and clean
as the character of saints.
(293) Now if I want to describe his mind, is not what I said about his behaviour the manifestation of
