his mind?
(294) Are not branches the tree only? Is there sea without water? Are the brilliance and the thing
which is brilliant two different things?
(295) Can the limbs and the body live separately? Can water and its liquidity remain separate?
(296) So you should understand that what I said about his action is indirectly the description of his
mind only.
(297) The seed which is sown in the earth comes out and grows as its tree. Similarly through the
organs it is the mind which you should understand, as becoming evident.
(298) Because, if there is no quality of non-violence in the mind, how can it overflow into action
through the organs?
(299) Dear Arjuna, please remember that the feeling of non-violence is born first in the mind and
then it finds expression through the speech, the vision, and the hands.
(300) Otherwise how can anything find expression in speech, if it is not primarily in the mind? Can
there be sprouts in the earth without seeds?
(301) When the mind itself is destroyed, the senses become already defunct, just as a puppet is
immobile without the man who pulls the strings.
(302) If the source of fountain is dried up, how can there be water in the stream? And how can the
body move when the life is gone?
(303) O Pandava, like that, the mind is at the root of the activities of senses. It itself acts through the
sense organs.
(304) The inward mind is expressed in the same manner and mood, in which it is itself occupied.
(305) Just as the sweet smell of a fruit spreads everywhere when it is ripe, similarly when non-
violence is completely developed in the mind, it gets expression outside through the organs,
accordingly.
(306) Then the organs use this capital of non-violence and trade it in the outward activities.
(307) When there is high tide in the sea, the water rises in the creeks also. Similarly the mind
enriches the organs by its richness of virtue.
(308) A great scholar while teaching a child to write, holds the fingers of the child in his hand and
writes as the child itself writes.
