(309) Similarly the mind lends its kindness to the sense-organs and make them also equally kind and
non-violent.
(310) Therefore, O the crowned one, the description I told about the organs is actually about the
functions of the mind.
(311) So, when you will see that from the mind the body and the speech, there is total renunciation of
violence in anyone,
(312) Know that he is really enjoying the knowledge of which he is the home; or you can consider
him to be knowledge itself.
(313) If you want to see personally that non-violence about which you have heard and read in the
books, you should see this man.
(314) Dnyandev says- "Thus, the Lord told Arjuna. Really I should have described this in short, but
in the flow of commenting, there was much expansion, for which I may please be forgiven.
(315) O listeners, you may say that when there is green grass in a field, the calf grazing there forgets
its way back, or a butterfly goes on flying on the breeze of the wind wildly.
(316) Similarly this person cannot control his mind when he is carried away by the beauty of his
own explanation, due to the great affection.
(317) But that is not the case here. There is quite a cogent reason for this detailed commentary. If you
see the word Ahimsa, it is a small word of three syllables.
(318) And you may think that it may be easy to talk about it in short, but in order to understand its
significance without keeping any doubt, it becomes necessary to take into consideration all
related opinions and disprove them.
(319) Otherwise, while many opinions about it are popularly known, if I neglect them in the pride of
my own opinion, you may not like it.
(320) If a man visits a town where there are many jewellers, it is wise for him to have the test by
which gems are valued. There is no point in praising ordinary crystals there.
(321) On the other hand, where even a pinch of flour is not sold, what value is there to the scent of
camphor?
(322) Therefore, if my talk becomes a bit prolonged in the meeting where saints like you are seated,
I hope, it is not much undesirable.
(323) If I talk in general terms without having due respect to the specially elite listeners and also the
