common listeners, you will not give your ear at all to it.
(324) If the propounding of logically clear statements about the main doctrine is polluted and
becomes defective for want of explanation and clarification of doubts, then the attention of the
listeners turns back by indifference, and they lose interest.
(325) You know that swans never go near the pool of water which is heavily covered by moss.
(326) And if the moon - light is not clear due to the clouds, the birds Chakora, do not lift their beaks
towards the sky.
(327) Similarly if my explanation is not comprehensive, clear and without any doubts, you will not
pay attention, will not touch this book and over and above, you may get angry with me.
(328) You will not accept my discussion if other opinions are not disproved and objections are not
removed by satisfactory explanation in it.
(329) And all my effort to explain this book is with a hope that saints like you should be pleased and
be attentive.
(330) Anyway, the reason of my holding Geeta near my heart is that you are intimately in loving
relationship with this great book.
(331) Actually, I hope that you will pay its value by way of loving attention and get the mortgaged
book restored and released from me!
(332) And if you miserly keep away from me your affectionate attention and let this Geeta lie as it is
with me, under mortgage, then my plight together with the destiny of this Geeta is better not talked
about!
(333) In short, I must admit that my main aim is to earn your blessing; the work of explaining the
meaning of Geeta is only a stance!
(334) So, it is necessary that my talk must be very logical and without any ambiguity. Therefore I
went into taking into account other opinions (about this virtue.)
(335) In that effort, my speech became lengthy, the meaning of the Sanskrit verse remained
unattended; but seeing that I am only a young child, please forgive me for my indulgence at length.
(336) And if there is some foreign material, like a little stone etc. in the morsel, we have to take it
out from our mouth also; and the delay caused by it cannot be taken as a grave defect.
(337) Or, when the son returns home late because he has avoided the danger of being robbed on his
way by the robbers and has come by a round-about path, should the mother get angry with him or
