thank God for his safe return?
(338) But it is rather not necessary to prolong this matter any further. If is enough for me that you
have forgiven me. Now please, listen to what the Lord Shrikrishna said."
(339) The Lord said- "O Arjuna, your eyesight has become clear by knowledge. So, be alert, be
attentive. We will tell you what are the signs of true knowledge.
(340) You should know that the quality of knowledge is very pure where there is complete act of
forgiveness, without an iota of effort to suffer anguish in it.
(341) The sense of forgiving is so natural in the mind of the man of knowledge, as are the lotus
flowers in a large and deep lake, or there is riches naturally in abundance in the house of a really
fortunate man.
(342) The forgiveness is so rich in this person. I will tell you the signs of recognizing that virtue,
which please listen to with attention.
(343) He bears with all the happenings with the same interest as we have when we wear an orament
which is liked by us very much.
(344) He is not affected even if all the three types of calamities fall upon him.
(345) He accepts undesirable happenings as cheerfully as he welcomes the desirable ones.
(346) He bears honour and insults, pleasures and pains with the same peaceful mind and he is not
disturbed either by his praise or blame.
(347) He does not get troubled in hot season, or gets worried about cold season. Actually he does
not fear any circumstances;
(348) Just as the mount Meru does not feel the burden of its peaks, or just as the Bear which is the
divine incarnation of Vishnu, who had lifted the earth up from the depths of sea does not mind its
heaviness;
(349) Or just as by the multitude of innumerable beings, the earth is not troubled, he does not worry
if there are pleasures or pains in his lot;
(350) Or just as the sea always keeps his belly big enough to contain all the streams of water brought
by all the rivers continuously;
(351) Similarly there is nothing which he does not sustain, nor is there any special awareness that he
is sustaining anything.
