(353) My dearest Arjuna, know that knowledge is very much evident where this simple forgiveness
without any complaining is prevalent.
(354) O Pandava, that man is the support for knowledge. Now we will describe clearly the nature of
straightforwardness or sincerity.
(355) Straightness of thought is that quality of mind by which a man has the same kindness towards
all, just as the Prana or the lifeforce is equally kind to every being.
(356) It is just as universal as the Sun who does not select some faces to throw his light upon them or
the sky which is the quality of space for everything equally.
(357) Similarly such a man has the same mental attitude towards all and his behaviour is also not
different to each and every one.
(358) As he has realized the reality of the nature of the world and has the eternal unity with it, he has
no sense that something is belonging to him and something is not.
(359) He is amiable with all as equally as water which is equally helpful to all and his mind does
not have doubts about anybody.
(360) He has a feeling of abundant love towards all just as the wind which blows everywhere, and
he has neither doubt nor attraction about anything.
(361) Just as the child does not become shy while approaching its mother, he is not hesitant while
expressing his mind in front of others.
(362) Just as when a lotus flower blooms, not a single petal remains closed, he opens his mind in
such a way that there is not any nook or corner unexposed.
(363) His mind is clear and his actions are also equally clear, just as on the diamond which is
already shining, the sunrays enhance the lustre.
(364) He does not know how to criticize anybody, he has no doubts whether he should tell something
or not, and expresses his true experiences.
(365) His eyes are never down with shame, his talk is not ambiguous or unclear, and he does not
behave meanly with anybody.
(366) All his ten organs are clear and pure, and all the five vitality forces are functioning properly
throughout twenty-four hours.
(367) His inner feelings are as sweet as the flow of nectar; or in short, he is the native home of all
these qualities.
