(368) O the great warrior, where such straightforward nature is inherent in any man, you should
recognize that knowledge has come to reside there.
(369) Now, O the greatest of the clever persons, I shall tell you about worship of a Guru, which
please hear attentively.
(370) This worship is the mother of all good fortune because, though the state of a Jeeva is worth
pity, it makes the Jeeva able to reach the absolute Brahman.
(371) I am going to explain to you the worship of the Guru which is so great, and you should
concentrate your attention fully to it.
(372) Just as the Ganges speedily flows towards the sea taking all her rich possessions of waters; or
just as all the philosophy of Vedas is culminated into the Absolute Brahman with all the doctrines
in that philosophy;
(373) Or just as the faithful wife offers all that is hers, together with even all her five vital forces, to
her husband;
(374) Similarly the devotee, in the worship to his Guru offers all his possessions to the family of his
Guru, and himself becomes the birth-place of the devotion to the Guru.
(375) He always thinks with great adoration about the place of residence of his Guru, just as a wife
who is away from her husband always thinks of him.
(376) If he experiences a breeze of wind coming from the direction of Guru's home towards him, he
runs towards it and most respectfully welcomes that breeze to come to his own house.
(377) Due to the great love for his Guru, he likes to talk with that direction in which his Guru's home
is situated and he turns his soul into a permanent dweller in the Guru's house.
(378) Just as a calf is tethered to a pole and cannot move, he, in order to obey the orders of his Guru
to stay at his house, keeps on residing where he is, and not moving away.
(379) Just as the calf is very anxious to run towards its mother, he is also thinking- "When will this
bondage will be slackened and when can I go to meet my Guru? He feels like Ages every moment
which is keeping him away!
(380) In these circumstances if some one from the Guru's town comes to meet him or if the Guru
himself has sent somebody to see him, then he feels like a dying man getting extension of life!
(381) He feels as if a sprout which is about to be dried up is getting a shower of nectar; or a fish
which was about to die in a small pond, luckily gets sudden entry into the vast sea.
