(382) His happiness is like a poor man suddenly coming upon the hidden treasure or a blind man
getting clear eyesight or a beggar attaining the throne of the God Indra.
(383) If he happens to hear someone saying something about the Guru's family, he becomes so
overjoyed that his mind would be able to hold within it the whole sky!
(384) If you see such an absolute love about the Guru, in any man, then you can say that knowledge
has become a servant of that man.
(385) He always holds dear to his heart in his meditation the living image of his Guru, with all his
love!
(386) He places in the purity of his heart, his Guru in the fortlike protection, and with all his
devotion he himself imagines and assumes to be each and everything intimately related to his
Guru.
(387) Or he places the image of his Guru on the pedestal of knowledge in the temple of spiritual
bliss of Atman and he maintains a constant shower or meditation, like nectar, on that image.
(388) When the Sun of the realization of Atman rises, he fills with the flowers of pious feelings the
delicate basket of intellect, and offers those flowers to the Guru who is like the Lord Shankara,
the number of which flowers may go up to the figure of hundred thousand.
(389) He burns the insence of the state of Jeeva, in the Lamp of knowledge, in all the three right
timings of the day, and waves with respect that lamp in front of the Guru, as an offer to him.
(390) He offers the dinner plate of unity with Brahman to his Guru; thus he becomes the worshipper
and the Guru becomes the image of the God to be worshipped.
(391) Sometimes his intellect imagines itself as the wife of the Guru who is conceived as her
husband and on the bed of the state of Jeeva, she enjoys the mating with that husband.
(392) Sometimes his mind and heart are so full of love for his Guru that he calls it as the sea of milk.
(393) Then he imagines that the Guru is the Lord Narayana who is sleeping comfortably on the bed
of the serpent "Shesha" which is equal to the joy in his meditation, in that sea of his love.
(394) He imagines that he himself is Goddess Laxmi who is massaging his Guru's feet and himself
also becomes the divine Eagle who is standing in attendance, with folded hands.
(395) He takes birth in the lotus growing from the Lord's navel, as the god Brahma. In this way he
imagines and experiences the joy in the meditation, by his love for his Guru.
(396) Sometimes he projects the image of a mother in his Guru, and thinks that he himself is the son
