of that mother, sucking the breast-milk.
(397) Or, O Arjuna of the beautiful crown, he imagines that Guru is the cow standing beneath the tree
of the spirit and he himself is her calf.
(398) He becomes the little fish in the waters of the blessings of his Guru! Sometimes he imagines
like this.
(399) Sometimes his mind projects an image that the blessing of his Guru is the rain and he himself
is a plant of the desire to do every service to that Guru.
(400) His loving imagery is so wide in its scope that at times he is the young one of a bird, which
has not yet opened its eyes and has not grown its wings.
(401) He thinks that the Guru is the mother bird, and receives the small grains in its beak from the
beak of its mother. He sometimes imagines that the Guru is a boat and that he has now come upon
that boat in the stream of worldly life.
(402) Thus, his meditation creates further meditation, as the sea in high tide has waves upon waves.
(403) Thus, he enjoys his Guru's image in his mind. Now listen about his service of the Guru in the
outer field.
(404) He decides by his heart and soul, that he will render service to his Guru so ardently that his
Guru will be pleased and ask him to request for boon which he may wish to have.
(405) "When he will be pleased, I will pray like this-
(406) "O My guru, I wish to be all the relatives who are in your family.
(407) And every instrument and article which is useful to you-should be myself only."
(408) I will demand such boon and the Guru will agree and will say "yes". Then I will take the form
of every such relative.
(409) And I will become each and every article used by my Guru, and then my service to the Guru
will be worthy of praise.
(410) Though my Guru is the mother for all his devotes, I will entreat him with such intensity that I
will feel that he is mother to me only.
(411) I will catch his loving attention with such a conviction that he will be so loving me as a
husband loves faithfully his only wife and I will make him decide to remain in my vicinity only.
