(412) Just as the wind which is always flowing cannot go beyond the four directions, I will also
become a cage for my Guru's blessings so that only I will benefit by his benevolence.
(413) I will adore the lady called "service to Guru" by the ornaments of my good qualities, and I
will be the cover for the devotion to him.
(414) He thinks that "I will become the land on which the rain of the benediction of my Guru will
fall. He always sees innumerable such day- dreams.
(415) He says "I will myself be the house where the Guru will live and I will serve him by
becoming his servant.
(416) I will be the thresholds which the kind and generous Guru will cross while coming in and
going out, and I will be the guard at the doors.
(417) I will be his (wooden) footwear and I will myself put his feet on them. I will be his umbrella
and I will be his bodyguard in the usual rotation.
(418) I will warn him about the pits etc. on his path, I will fan him, I will hold his hand when he gets
up or walks, and I will be his torch-bearer.
(419) I will be the pot of water which he uses for his mouthwash and I will also be the pot in which
he will throw that mouthful of water.
(420) I will be the pot of material of his Paan, and I will hold what remnants he will drop from that
chewed Paan. I will also make preparations for his bath.
(421) I will be the seat on which my Guru may sit, I will be his clothes and his ornaments, and I will
become the cosmetics like sandalwood paste which he uses.
(422) I will be the food and I will serve him that food, and I will surrender myself as a lamp which
is respectfully waved before him as an auspicious welcome.
(423) I will take dinner with him and after his meals, I will be the one who gives him the Paan.
(betel-leaf.)
(424) I will lift his plate, I will clean and sweep his bedding, and I will massage his feet.
(425) I will be the throne on which my Guru will sit and in this way I will offer the highest quality of
service to the Guru.
(426) I will be the interesting thing about which my guru will show liking.
(427) When he is listening to something, I will be the so many words and I will be his pleasure of
