touch when he will scratch his body!
(428) I will adopt the form of each and every thing which my Guru will look at with affection.
(429) I will be each and every taste of food etc., which he will relish and by being fragrance I will
render service to his sense of smell also.
(430) So, in this way, I will cover the whole outward service to my Guru by becoming myself all the
things he uses" - thus the disciple thinks.
(431) So long as he is living, he thinks about such ways and means of service to the Guru and he
thinks of some other things to be done after his own death.
(432) He says- "The ashes of this my body should be mixed with the earth where my Guru may
casually stand.
(433) The water content of my body should be mixed with that water which my Guru will drink.
(434) I will merge the fire and light of my body in the lamps which my Guru uses for worship of God
or for room-lighting.
(435) I will mingle my vital breath with wind which my Guru will enjoy by using a fan etc., so that I
will get the benefit of his touch and the merit of service to him.
(436) I will merge the sky element from my body into the space in which my Guru will be residing
with his family.
(437) He thinks that he will not allow anybody else to grab from him this service to his Guru even
for a moment. I will not neglect this service either in my life or after the death of my body. "He
always thinks that this will be for eternity.
(438) His daring is of this kind and his service to his Guru does not depend on a particular place or
a particular time.
(439) He does not make any distinction in day or night, does not say the work is smaller or bigger
and if the work is difficult he gets more eager.
(440) Even if the work which the Guru expects to be done is greater than the sky, he executes it
personally single-handedly.
(441) As soon as the Guru tells him to do something his body runs ahead before his mind and
competes with his mind to finish that work satisfactorily.
(442) Even to fulfill a chance desire expressed by his Guru jokingly, he may mortgage his very life.
