(443) He gets exhausted in the service of his guru, becomes healthier by the love which the Guru has
for him, and becomes the home for the orders of his Guru.
(444) He considers himself as noble by belonging to the group of disciples of his Guru, considers
himself as a gentleman by his fellowship with co-disciples and the only habit to which he is
addicted is service to his Guru.
(445) The rules of conduct in the Sampradaya of his Guru is Religion for him, and those only are his
duties according to his class, caste and status in life, while service and nursing of his Guru is his
daily routine.
(446) For him his Guru is the sacred place, Guru is his deity, Guru his mother, Guru his father, and
he does not know any path of liberation except serving his Guru.
(447) The door of his Guru is everything to him, and he behaves as a brother with his co-disciples.
(448) His mouth utters always the 'mantra' of the name of Guru, and he does not touch by his hand
any other scripture except the teaching given by his Guru.
(449) He conceives that all the sacred waters of the world are united in the water which the Guru
has touched by his feet.
(450) If he gets the food left over in the plate of his Guru, he is so happy that he disregards even the
bliss of trance before it.
(451) O the crowned one! He picks up the specks of dust below the feet of his Guru with the faith
that they are able to give him the joy of liberation.
(452) Let it be! How much should I tell? The devotion towards Guru has no limits, but as my mind
has been overflowing with the devotion, I have described all this at length.
(453) He who is interested in the devotion to Guru and is very keen on it, does not find anything
equal to it in joyfulness.
(454) This man is the support for philosophy; because of him, the knowledge takes a form, or we can
say that this devotee with such knowledge is virtually a god.
(455) Really, knowledge resides in him very freely and it is so vast that it is sufficient for all the
world.
(456) Dear listeners, since I have great yearning for devotion to the Guru, I have indulged into such a
prolonged discussion about it.
(457) Otherwise, I am having hands but they are of no use; I am having no eyes which can be awake
