to the sweetness in the worship; and I am more lame than the crippled in the subject of worship.
(458) I am dumb in the matter of appreciation of his qualities. I am a free-boarding lazy man, but
sirs! I have real love about Guru.
(459) And because of that love, I had to expand upon this description to such an extent." So says
Dnyanadeva.
(460) But you may please connive at the extended talk and give me some scope, some opportunity to
serve you. Now I am going to explain the meaning only of this book.
(461) Please listen! Please listen! The Lord Shrikrishna who is virtually the Lord Vishnu who is
able to bear the burden of the whole world, is going to talk further, and Partha is listening.
(462) He said - "The quality of cleanliness is such that the mind and the body of this man are as pure
as camphor.
(463) O Arjuna, that purity is like the gem which is clear inside and out, or like the Sun who is bright
throughout.
(464) This man has attained purity outwardly by pure action and inwardly by knowledge- thus
washed clean both outwardly and inwardly.
(465) By reciting Vedic mantras and washing the body with clay and water, the outer cleanliness is
achieved.
(466) In every situation intelligence is of primary importance. Just as dusting a mirror cleans it and
the tub of the washerman removes the dirt from the cloth,
(467) He is clean outwardly like these and he is inwardly clean because there is light of knowledge
inside.
(468) Otherwise, O the son of Pandu, if a man's mind is not pure, his outward cleanliness is simply
ridiculous.
(469) That is like decorating a dead body, or a donkey given a ritualistic bath at a sacred place, or
bitter gourd, mixed in sweet milk.
(470) It is like decorating the door of a deserted house, or a starving man outwardly smeared with
food, or the kumkum used by a widow;
(471) Thus, it is also like a false facade of a dome of a temple being painted with liquid gold, which
shines but in vain, it is like a toy fruit prepared by dry cowdung and painted outwardly.
