(472) Similar is the case with mere outward rituals. An article which is not of good quality does not
fetch a good price and the jug of wine cannot be pure even if dipped in the Ganges.
(473) Therefore, there should be knowledge in the mind and then the outer purity will be there
naturally, but can it ever happen that there will be inner knowledge gained by outward activities?
(474) When the outer is cleaned by right action, and the inner defects are removed by knowledge,
(475) Then the difference of the inner and the outer is gone and only homogeneous purity remains.
(476) Therefore, the inward good feelings shine out naturally like the light of the lamp in crystal
glass.
(477) Even if the subjects by which doubts arise in the mind, or some abnormal thoughts appear in
the mind or seeds of evil actions take roots,
(478) Even if he hears those subjects or comes into contact with such matters, he is not having any
disturbance in his consciousness, just as the sky does not become coloured by colours of the
clouds.
(479) Outwardly he is acting normally among all the objects of senses but inwardly he is not at all
touched by any disturbances.
(480) He is as desireless about the sense-objects, as a man who sees a woman on the road, who is
beautiful but of lowly category, is not attracted to her.
(481) Or just as a young woman who has no sensual desire for her son whom she embraces, as she
has while embracing her husband.
(482) Similarly when the mind is pure there is no scope for doubts and contrary thoughts in it, but
that mind clearly sees what is right action and what is not.
(483) Just as a diamond does not become wet by water; and stone cannot be boiled in hot water,
similarly his mind is not affected by doubts.
(484) O Partha, this condition should be recognized by you as purity and where this purity is evident,
knowledge exists there.
(485) Similarly the man in whose house (mind) the steadiness enters of its own accord, is the very
life of knowledge.
(486) His body is going about anywhere in the world outwardly, but the steadiness of his mind is
never broken.
