(487) The love for calf which is in the heart of the cow does not go away with her in the forest,
away from the calf, and the love of a modest faithful wife (a Satee) does not turn to carnal desire.
(488) Or a person who is attached to his money may go out of the town for any purpose, his soul is
adhering to his money kept hidden by him; similarly, though his body is going to various places,
the mind does not move.
(489) That firmness is like the sky which does not run with the running clouds, or the star of North
Pole which does not leave its place while the whole starry expanse appears to move.
(490) O the great archer! With the traveller, the road does not go anywhere, nor the trees go or come
as the travellers walk.
(491) Thus, though he is surrounded by elements and consisting of his body, he does not get
disturbed by the force of any element,
(492) Just as the earth does not move by the force of ordinary wind, he also does not get troubled by
any nuisances.
(493) He is not harassed by destitution or pain; does not get vexed due to fear and sorrow, and when
the death of the body comes he is not afraid.
(494) His mind which is always cheerful, does not get crooked or warped either by calamity or by
hope, or by pains involved in various ailments.
(495) When somebody blames him, insults him or physically beats him, or there are occasions when
ordinarily men become prone to lust or anger, the mind of this man is not disturbed at all.
(496) Though upheavals in the outer world are so great that it is felt that the sky is falling down or
the earth is being dissolved, his mind is not disturbed.
(497) He is not vexed by somebody's using very harmful words for him, just as an elephant does not
move away if flowers are thrown on him.
(498) The mountain Mandar is not having tremors by the waves of the sea of milk, and even if there
is a big forest fire, the sky is not burnt by it.
(499) Similarly, though there is occasion of getting disturbed in mind for a human being by
onslaughts of pains and pleasures, his mind is not troubled. Even at the time of total dissolution of
the universe, this man is firm in his steady mind.
(500) O Arjuna, this is the quality which is called steadiness, which you should see clearly and
understand.
