(501) Where such steadiness or courage is well established in the body and soul, that is the evident
treasure-house of knowledge.
(502) The ghost does not relieve the man possessed by it, the fighter does not leave his weapon, and
the greedy does not forget his hidden money.
(503) Or the mother of the only child always sits holding it tightly, or the honeybee is totally greedy
for honey.
(504) Dear Arjuna, he who keeps his mind so carefully protected and does not allow it to stand at
the door of his organs;
(505) says to himself, "Perhaps my mind's name will be heard and known by the demon which is
Desire or the ghost which is Hope will see it with its evil eye"- and fears about it.
(506) And keeps his outgoing force of activity in bondage, just as a violent husband keeps his
unfaithful wife locked in the room.
(507) Even if his life-force in the physical body is emaciated and is about to end, still he keeps his
sense-organs in strict discipline.
(508) He keeps the sentries of self-control of mind and body alert and awake at the main entrance of
the mind and at the point of inward withdrawal of attention.
(509) He keeps his attention rivetted at the junction of the two Nadis (nerve-streams) Ida and
Pingala, after keeping strict guard on the three yogic postures of Mool Bandha, Odhiyana Bandha
and Jallandar Bandha.
(510) He keeps his attention tied on the bed of trance and inwardly gets the fully blissful state of
unity of the mind and the spirit.
(511) Dear Arjuna, this is called the control of mind in Atman, and where this is achieved,
knowledge is victorious, and
(512) He whose orders are obeyed by his mind peacefully, is virtually the knowledge itself in the
human form.
इंिदयाथषु वैरा यमनहंकार एव च|
ज ममृ युजरा यािधदुःखदोषानुदशनम्
Then there is no desire about the objects of the senses, there is no ego, or pride and there is
constant awareness of the great sorrow in the birth, the death, the oldage, the diseases, and knowing
them to be the great sources of misery! (8)
