(242) Saying these things, Arjuna further said, “O God! Please pay some attention. I wish to tell you
how fearsome is this sin!”
क
ु ल ये पण यि त क
ु लधमाः सनातनाः|
धम न े क
ु लं क
ृ नमधम ऽिभभव युत
With the total destruction of a family, the ancient family traditions of rituals etc. are also
destroyed and when this virtuous tradition is lost, vice defeats the entire race. (40)
(243) When a piece of wood is rubbed vigorously on another piece, a little spark is produced but in
no time, it flares up and burns down all the woods.
(244) Similarly when in one great family through malice and hatred, people kill each other, the
whole family is destroyed by that great sin.
(245) Therefore, if I commit this sin, the religion of family will disappear and throughout the family,
evil will reign.
अधमािभभवा क
ृ ण पदु यि त क
ु लि तयः|
तीषु दु ासु वा णय जायते वणस करः
With the defeat of virtue by vice, O Krishna, the noble ladies of the family become spoiled and
when they are so spoiled, O Varshneya, there surely becomes an inter-mixture of castes. (41)
(246) When such a state becomes predominant, it becomes impossible to know what is wrong and
what is right and who should do what type of work and the very scope of indications and contra-
indications about behaviour is nullified.
(247) It is like throwing the lamp which is in one’s hand, and walking in the dark. Then we are sure
to fall.
(248) Similarly when there is destruction of the whole family, the basic religious observances are
lost and then what else can there remain except sin?
(249) When the rules of conduct and self-control as to thought and sense-organs become loose, the
sense organs run astray anywhere and in that spate, the noble virtuous women are also defiled.
(250) The higher castes mix-up with the lower castes and there is mixture of higher and lower races,
thus uprooting the natural age-old rules of conduct postulated in the caste-system.
(251) Then the greatest sins have their free sway in the families, just like a plate of food kept
exposed in the open city square, is devoured freely by crows.
