(513) In his mind there is an acute abhorance of involvement in the objects of senses.
(514) That abhorance is as acute as the repulsion one feels about food which is vomited and the
repulsion about embracing the dead body.
(515) It is just like our abhorance of taking poison knowingly, our fear of entering a house on fire
and of entering a forest where a tiger is roaming freely.
(516) Or we cannot dare jump in the hot liquid iron or make a pillow of a viper to put our head on
and sleep.
(517) Arjuna! His dislike is so much that he does no tolerate even discussion about sense-
enjoyment, and does not accept anything through the sense organs with any intention to enjoy.
(518) He is lazy about indulgence in pleasures; his body is very thin, and he has great interest in the
ways of self-control of mind and action.
(519) Arjuna, all the vows of observances of spiritual disciplines are taking resort in him and he
really does not like to go into a crowded city, even if there is threat of the end of the world.
(520) He is very eager to study yoga, and likes to retire to forest for solitary life and does not
tolerate multitude of people.
(521) He considers the worldly enjoyments as if they are a bed of sharp arrows or it is like rotting in
the mud of pus.
(522) When he listens to the description of the heavenly pleasures, he feels that they are like rotten
flesh of a dead dog.
(523) This is apathy towards mundane pleasures and the fortune of self-realization by which Jeevas
become entitled to the bliss of the state of Brahman.
(524) Where you see the existence of apathy about both the mundane and the heavenly enjoyments,
you should know that the real knowledge dwells there.
(525) He, in addition, does many deeds of public conveniences as if he is mentally involved in those
things but he does not allow the sense of doership to affect his mind.
(526) He does not make mistakes or fail in any manner in performing his regular or occasional duties
according to his stage in personal life and status in the caste system.
(527) But he does not harbour any thought that "I have done this," or "This is successful because of
me" etc. in doing all those actions.
