(528) His actions are as natural as the blowing of the wind or the rising of the Sun.
(529) His behaviour is like the natural talk of Vedas or the natural causeless flow of Ganges.
(530) His attitude towards all his actions is like the trees which bear fruit according to the right
season but they are not proudly aware that they are bearing fruit.
(531) Thus, when there is no pride in the mind, in the actions as well as in the speech, as if the
thread is removed from a garland of beads;
(532) He has that aloofness from his body and its activities, as there are clouds in the sky without
touching it.
(533) They are like the clothes on the body of a drunkard, or the weapon in the hands of painted
picture, or the books of philosophy loaded on the back of a bullock- so aloof he is from his
actions.
(534) In such a way he has no awareness of his body; and that is called "lack of pride".
(535) Where all these signs are fully evident, knowledge is residing there, about which there need
not be any other opinion.
(536) And he sees from a distance, with a certain detachment, all the happenings in life such as birth,
death, sorrow, diseases, oldage and various vices;
(537) That detachment is like the attitude of a seeker towards a ghost, or the attitude of a yogi
towards disturbances or the impartiality of a plumb-line which shows the defect in straight
vertical line of structure without itself being crooked.
(538) Just as the serpent never forgets the hurt and jealously waits to take revenge, so he never
forgets the miseries suffered by him during his past incarnations.
(539) He has constant memory of his past sufferings just as a tiny speck of dust which is not tolerated
in the eye or a wound cannot forget the prick of the arrow which has hurt it earlier.
(540) He is repenting and saying to himself- "Alas! I was in the pit of pus and came out through the
path near the path of urine and in my childhood I have licked the sweat on the breast of my
mother!"
(541) In many such manners he becomes disgusted about birth and says that he would never do such
things by which such suffering results.
(542) Just as a gambler plays with renewed vehemence if he has lost a game or a son tries to
avenage the injustice done to his father by his enemy,
