strength is going to be lost as the kingdom of a king without a wise adviser.
(558) This nose which enjoys the fragrance of flowers is going to be as hard and insensitive as the
knee of a camel.
(559) My head is going to be like the feet of cattle which are afflicted by fungus in the days of onset
of rainy season.
(560) These eyes of mine are vying with the lotus petals in the matter of delicate beauty, but they are
going to be like the seeds of ripe serpent - gourds.
(561) The brows will hang down like dried up peels and my chest will be rotten by constant
droppings of the tears from the eyes.
(562) Just as the chamelions smear the rough trunk of Babool tree by their saliva, my mouth will be
dirty by my oozing saliva.
(563) Just as in front of the oven in the kitchen, water mixed with ash and dirt is dampening the
place, my nose will be dirty with the mucus coming out.
(564) This mouth I decorate with the colours of betel- leaves and show off my teeth while laughing
and speak sweet words with my tongue,
(565) Are going to be smeared with cough and saliva and the teeth are going to fall;
(566) My tongue will not the able to lift itself or move, just as the lessees on the farms are unable to
do anything due to heavy loans or the cattle sitting under heavy rains cannot easily get up.
(567) My beard will be distorted in a way just like dry hay being blown by wind.
(568) Just as in the heavy rains at the onset of monsoon, many streams flow down from the peaks of
hills, there will be saliva flowing from the open mouth.
(569) My speech will be slurring, ears will be deaf and my body will look as a big monkey.
(570) My body will tremble like the scarecrow of hay and cloth in the field, which trembles by
wind.
(571) My feet will be crooked, my hands will be crippled and the handsome body will then be like a
dancing puppet.
(572) The opening of anus and penis will be out of function and other men will pray for my death.
(573) The world will discard me with scorn, I will have to pray for early death and my relatives
