will be disgusted with me.
(574) Women will call me a ghost; children will have a fit through fear at my sight, and I will be an
object of abhorance.
(575) When I will continuously cough even throughout the night, the neighbours will be so harassed
by my nuisance that they will exclaim "How many persons is this old man going to give trouble
to?"
(576) He sees the possible pitiable plight of his oldage while he is still young and he becomes
dejected by that:
(577) He says- "This will be the condition in my oldage and what I am enjoying is definitely going to
end one day; and then what will I have which will be really helpful to me?"
(578) So, he listens to religious teaching as long as the capacity of hearing is not impaired and goes
to places of pilgrimage so long as he has strength enough to travel.
(579) He sees whatever is worth seeing while his eyesight is normal and speaks good thoughts so
long as his power of speech is not gone.
(580) He becomes aware that his hands may be useless by paralysis in old age
and, therefore, takes every opportunity to give generously in charity etc. immediately.
(581) He knows that in the old age his mind will get muddled and, therefore, studies to have
understanding about the Atman.
(582) Before robbers may take away his valuables, it is wise to utilize them for good purposes and
before the wick of a lamp is burnt out, it is wise to put our kitchen in ship-shape by nicely
covering the food articles.
(583) Similarly it is wise to study how to be detached from this body before it becomes troublesome
in oldage and useless for anything.
(584) When a man goes on for any adventure even if he knows that the castles and the bastians are
nearly dilapidated, or there is great assembly of clouds in the sky, which forewarn us of the
imminent tempest, it is foolishness; and he is surely heading for disaster.
(585) Similarly in oldage the physical power will be gone, even though the man may be a
centenarian!
(586) There is no further gain of 'Til' grains when once the plants are thrashed, and you have gained
whatever grains were there; similarly, when oldage comes, the man becomes useless even if he
may live for one hundred years.
