(587) Therefore, one should recognize that there is knowledge in that man who prepares well in time
with self-realization before oldage has come and he is fully aware of its effects.
(588) Similarly, seeing the possibility of diseases harming him in future, he takes precaution by
taking proper health-giving medicine.
(589) It is like a wise man who simply throws away any food article which is feared to have been
licked by the serpent.
(590) Similarly he cuts away the sense of attachments to people and things, by estrangement with
them, from whom there is likelihood of suffering from sorrow or one would have to undergo
mental anguish or troubles.
(591) He takes timely precaution to shut off the doors of various sense organs through which vices
may penetrate inside his consciousness.
(592) He who takes precautions of this nature, is really rich with the riches of knowledge and he is
master of himself.
(593) O Dhanajaya, now I shall tell you some more signs of a man of knowledge to which you please
pay attention,
असि रनिभ व गः पुतदारगृहािदषु|
िन यं च समिच विम ािन ोपपि षु
He has no attachment and no sense of belonging to sons, wife and home etc. He has also a mind
which remains steady even if he gets desirable or undesirable things. (9)
(594) He is so disinterested in his body, as if a traveller has stopped for some time in a cave.
(595) He has no interest in his house, just as a shade of tree one sees while he is walking by a road.
(596) Our shadow is with us but we are not all the time aware of our shadow. Similarly this man is
not attracted to a woman.
(597) And he considers that his offsprings are just like guests coming in the house for some time or
cattle resting beneath a tree.
(598) When he is in good financial condition, O the son of Pandu, he behaves in such a way that he is
only a witness to all the riches.
(599) He obeys the rules of conduct with fear of breach, just like a parrot in a cage.
(600) In short, know him to be the guardian mother of knowledge who has no attachment of wife, the
