(614) He has great preference for solitary places and has aversion to crowded localities and he is,
therefore, to be known as the very image of knowledge.
(615) I shall tell you more signs of knowledge, O Arjuna, of good intellect!
अ या म ानिन य वं त व ानाथदशनम्|
एत ानिमित पो म ानं यदतोऽ यथा
In him the spiritual wisdom abides permanently and he is always awake to the deeper meaning of
philosophy. These all qualities are declared as 'Knowledge' and whatever is different from these is
called 'Ignorance' - (11)
(616) That knowledge makes it possible to see inwardly the thing which is called the Supreme
Atman.
(617) The mind is certain that the Atman is the only real thing and all other knowledge like this
world and the heaven world is ignorance.
(618) The man who respects this knowledge leaves aside the promise of going to heaven, cuts all
concern about the worldly life and jumps into the great pool of spiritual wisdom with all his good
faith.
(619) If we turn by mistake to a wrong path and when we know that it is our error, we come again to
the right path by finding it.
(620) Like that, he puts aside knowledge about everything else and turns his mind and intellect
towards self-knowledge.
(621) He says that this self-knowledge is the only real knowledge and all else is delusion; and his
conviction about this is as firm as the mountain Meru.
(622) He who is convinced in this way, stands firmly at the door of spiritual knowledge as the North
star is fixed at its place in the sky.
(623) There is no doubt that there is knowledge in him; because when his mind is well established in
this knowledge he himself is that Knowledge.
(624) Now it is true that he does not become knowledge himself as soon as that understanding arises
in his mind, but when his mind becomes fully initiated in that knowledge, he himself can be said
to be the knowledge incarnate.
(625) Moreover there is only one fruit or result of pure knowledge and that is that he sees directly
that thing which is the aim of all seeing and knowing.
