(626) Otherwise, if the knowable is not yet known after understanding about it, it cannot be said that
he has attained self-knowledge.
(627) What is the use of a blind man taking a lamp in his hand? Similarly if there is no perception of
the knowable, we must say that his conviction that he has attained knowledge is all false and
meaningless.
(628) If the Supreme Atman is not perceived by the light of the knowledge, the very feeling of that
knowledge proves to be blind.
(629) Therefore, knowledge should be so pure that whatever it shows to the mind should be seen as
that Paramatman only.
(630) Thus he who has such pure intuition sees the abstract principle beyond everything which is
indicated by that pure knowledge.
(631) And he whose knowledge is so pure that it shows the Paramatman clearly, has his intellect
also equally pure. It is not necessary to say in so many words that such a man is himself
knowledge made manifest.
(632) Really, he whose intellect touches directly the object which is knowable, by the light of this
knowledge, shakes hands with Paramatman.
(633) Then, O Arjuna, what wonder is there, if we call this man as the knowledge itself? My dear,
when we say- Sun, is it necessary to say as an explanation that the Sun means Sun?
(634) Here some of the listeners said, "Enough with this prolonged imagery. Why are you creating
distraction in the main flow of the commentary?
(635) You have at length described what is knowledge. Your loving reception to us by way of your
untrammelled literary fantasy is quite satisfying to us.
(636) No doubt, you have taken a pledge that your commentary will be very absorbingly interesting
because of its poetic content, but after inviting us to listen, why are you making us a bit annoyed
by your flights into unnecessary ornamentation?
(637) What is the use of formality of hospitality shown by a lady, who, at the time of serving dinner
goes away with food articles?
(638) Who will in vain feed a cow, who is otherwise very docile, but does not allow anybody to sit
for milching?
(639) Similarly there are other commetators whose intellect does not shine in the matter of the
subject to be explained, and runs away into irrelevant flights of fancy, but let it be. In your case,
