(654) Anyway, when we know the nature of knowledge, O Dhananjaya, we automatically know that
what is not knowledge is ignorance.
(655) For example, when the day comes to an end, it is the turn of night. There is no third period of
time there.
(656) Similarly, know that, where there is no knowledge, there is ignorance but we will tell you
some signs, so that you will easily recognise what it is.
(657) The man should be known as ignorant who always lives for being honoured, who is waiting to
be respected and is gratified when felicitated.
(658) He does not climb down from his high tower of pride, just like from the peak of a mountain. In
him ignorance is full.
(659) He decorates with his own flattering words whatever good deeds he has done, and just as the
hangmen generally prepare banners of peepul leaves tied on a string, and put them on their door,
he proclaims publicly all that he has done. He is always proudly standing errect as the broom in a
temple place.
(660) He exhibits proudly his shallow knowledge, beats drums of his good deeds and does
everything only to earn public applause.
(661) He who decorates his body by dandy fashions but deceives those who adore him, should be
known as the mine of ignorance.
(662) By his actions the whole world is harassed just as everything burns when there is a big forest
fire.
(663) His casual talk is also harmful as a sharp lance and his intentions are more killing than poison.
(664) He whose life becomes the home of violence is very ignorant, or he can be said to be the
treasure of ignorance.
(665) When he gets something or loses something, he becomes elated and dejected as quickly as the
bellows of an ironsmith.
(666) He becomes puffed up by his praise just like dust flying in the air by swift wind.
(667) Just as a little lump of earth becomes damp by drops of water and immediately becomes dry
by a little wind, so he beats his forehead with sorrow when somebody blames him,
(668) And becomes so agitated by honour or insult that he cannot tolerate any emotion. There is
complete ignorance in him.
