(669) He is very reserved in mind but superficially talks freely with others, shows intimacy to one
man but helps quite some one else.
(670) By sweet talk he fools good people like the baits kept by a hunter to catch the animals.
(671) He whose outward action is superficially attractive as moss-covered coral stone or the ripe
bitter fruit of Neem.
(672) In such a person there is surely ignorance about which there is no doubt.
(673) He is ashamed to speak about his Guru's family etc.; he is apathetic towards any kind of
devotion to his Guru, and becomes treacherous after learning everything from his Guru.
(674) To utter the name of such a person is itself a sin, like taking food from an unworthy person, but
we could not avoid it while telling the characteristics of stupid and ignorant persons.
(675,676) Now I will respectfully remember the name of a true devotee of a Guru so that it will be a
moral retribution for the sin inadvertantly committed by uttering the name of such an ungrateful
person; because the name of a devotee of Guru spreads light everywhere like the sunlight.
(677) All the sins committed so far will be washed clean by the name of the devotee of the Guru!
Now please listen to some other signs of ignorance.
(678) He is loose in his behavior and his attire; he is full of doubts, and just as a forsaken well in a
forest,
(679) Is having bones at the bottom, and horny shrubs at the mouth, he is dirty both inside and
outside.
(680) Just as a dog cares not whether the food is stale, exposed or covered, similarly, for the sake of
his belly, this man does not care whose money it is so long as he can grasp it.
(681) Just as the dogs have no consideration for morality, this man also does not care about morality
while enjoying anything.
(682) He does not care at all whether any job is delayed or the routine and occasional duties remain
to be performed.
(683) He is not ashamed to commit sins and is not interested in doing good deeds, while there are
doubts always rising in his mind every moment.
(684) He should be known as the statue of ignorance, especially when he puts on his eyes the band of
money-mindedness.
