(685) And just as a tiny blade of grass is disturbed even by an ant walking by its side, this man
forgets all control when even a little benefit is seen at hand.
(686) He is terrified by some little cause just as the water in a small ditch becomes totally upset
when someone steps on it.
(687) Just as a gourd is carried down in the flood of a river, he is carried away by his over-
ambitious desires.
(688) Just as dust is blown away by wind, he becomes distracted by listening to any bad news.
(689) Just as the hurricane does not take rest anywhere, he does not stay at any town or place of
pilgrimage, etc.
(690) Just as the fully grown chamelion runs up and down the trunk of a tree, this man is wandering
anywhere without any purpose.
(691) Just as a jar which has no flat bottom does not stay steady unless fixed by some support, this
man remains at one place if he falls down, otherwise he is always on the move.
(692) He is brother of a monkey in the quality of unsteadiness! Such a man has ignorance saturated in
him.
(693) And O the great archer! He has no restraint at all, either in his mind or actions.
(694) When there is storm water in spate in a stream, a sand bund cannot withstand it. Similarly this
man is not hesitant in any forbidden actions, even though warned.
(695) This man disregards his own vows, kicks religion scornfully and flouts the rules of good
conduct.
(696) He is never tired of committing sins; he has no liking for any good deeds and he uproots the
shame about bad deeds.
(697) He does not care about family tradition of rituals etc.; he avoids to pay any heed to the dictates
of Vedas, and does not know what is right and what is wrong.
(698) He is wild as a young bull left free to roam in the streets, as uncontrollable as wind and as
free-flowing as a stream in wilderness.
(699) His mind is freely wandering in objects of sensual pleasures like a mad elephant, or a forest
fire.
(700) Dear Arjuna! What is not thrown in a refuse dump? Who can catch a wild bull? Who does not
