cross the gates of the town? (Everything is thrown; none can catch the bull, and all have to cross
the gate while going out of town. As there is no exception to these, there is no exception to the
bad deeds of such a person).
(701) Anyone can take dinner in the general charity distribution of food; anybody can pay for and
enjoy the company of a young prostitute and when the grocery shop is open any customer enters it.
(702) When a man has such a mind, you should know that in him ignorance is really prospering.
(703) Such a man never leaves his attraction to sense- objects, either in life or after death, and
prepares here only for enjoyments of pleasures in the heaven world.
(704) He is attached to enjoyment without break; he is addicted to sexual act, and if he at all happens
to see face to face any real mendicant who is desireless, this man feels that he is contaminated
and takes a purificatory bath!
(705) Though the objects of pleasure may be fed up of this man, he is not fed up of them. Just as a
leper eats food with his own multilated hands, he continues to enjoy the pleasures.
(706) Even if the female donkey kicks hard on the nose of the male donkey, he is not discouraged and
persists in his sexual act.
(707) Similarly this man, in the hope of enjoying something by his sense-organs, may even jump in a
fire, and he proudly shows off his bad habits as if they are his ornaments.
(708) Even if a deer may fall down with broken heart while running after a mirage, it does not stop
or recognize that there is only illusion of water.
(709) Similarly from birth to death, this man may be troubled in many ways, but does not mind them
and holds on to his pleasures with increased attachment.
(710) In childhood he is attached to the mother and the father, and when childhood departs, he is
enticed to the flesh of his wife.
(711) When the enjoyment with his wife is going on, the oldage approaches and he converts his
attachment towards children.
(712) Just as the blind puppies of dogs or the kitten sleep coiled in a corner, he relaxes surrounded
by children, but alsas! He is never bored by objects of senses even upto the time of death.
(713) You should know that there is no limit to ignorance in such a person. Now we will tell you
some more signs.
(714) This man has a fixed concept that the physical body is itself the Atman, and starts doing
