everything from that concept.
(715) And whatever he does more or less successfully or otherwise, by that only he becomes elated
or dejected.
(716) Just as a person prone to psychic possession, starts to become stiff and dance as soon as he
holds the idol of his favorite deity on his head, this man becomes insolent due to his youth and his
scholarship and walks with an affected gait of hautiness.
(717) He says- "I am the best man! only I have the money in my house! Who is there equal to me in
achievements and activities?"
(718) "There is nobody greater than I, I am the only one who knows everything." He maintains such
pride and self- righteous satiation in his mind.
(719) Just as a person down with high fever and ailments cannot tolerate any enjoyment, this man
cannot tolerate even the sight of anybody prospering and doing well in his life.
(720) In the case of a lamp, you will see that the wick of cotton is burned by the flame, the oil is also
consumed, and the place where it is kept becomes black with soot.
(721) If water is sprinkled on it, the flame flickers making noise, it is extinguished by the wind, and
if the flame touches any combustible material the fire flares up so much that everything is turned
to ashes; even a small stick is not spared.
(722) The lamp gives only a feeble circle of light but it creates equally hot air. This man is similarly
boastful of his little learning.
(723) Milk though health-giving, becomes a poison in the case of pneumonia, and milk given to a
serpent turns into a poison.
(724) Similarly this man is jealous of virtues of others and becomes egoistic by learning of word-
knowledge, by penance and knowledge of an ordinary nature.
(725) Just as a poor man becomes conceited when he is made a king and a python becomes stiff if it
swallows hard wood, so, you will find this man puffed up by pride.
(726) He is non-bending like the wooden rod; does not become wet or soft just as a stone and does
not obey any virtuous person, just as the really venomous viper is not affected by the charmer's
spell.
(727) In short, ignorance is increasing in him. What we are telling you is definitely true.
(728) Further, O Dhananjaya, he is so involved in taking care of the belongings required by him for
