his home and his own person that he never cares about his last birth or his present life.
(729) Any obligation done to an ungrateful man, money given to a robber and admonishings given to
a shameless person, all go waste.
(730) A dog whose ears and tail are cut because it has entered a house, returns there again even
before the blood in its wound is dried up, to shamelessly look for something to eat;
(731) Even when a frog is on the verge of being caught in the mouth of a serpent, it projects its
tongue to lift up a fly; not aware of its own immient death.
(732) Similarly, this man is not ashamed even though all his organs have gone out of control and his
body is afflicted with oozing skin disease!
(733) He has suffered a lot while in the cave of the womb of his mother, being surrounded by
omniotic fluid and by intestines and bladder etc.
(734) He has also suffered a lot at the time of birh; but he is not now remembering all those troubles.
(735) He sees small children which are smeared by their own excreta and urine, but does not repent
about his own past suffering and–
(736) Does not think- "O! My last birth was just recently over and there will be another birth again"
and has no pangs of self-pity.
(737) Being in the prime of youth, he does not brood about the death which is certain to come;
(738) His mind is lulled into belief that he is going to live as now, in future also, but his mind is not
ready to face the fact of that death.
(739) A fish remains under the belief that the little pool in which it is living is not going to be dried
up and, therefore, does not try to go to a deeper lake.
(740) While listening to the sweet notes of the flute of the hunter, the deer is not aware of the snare
of the net, and without seeing the hook, the fish catches the bait in its mouth.
(741) And the moth, looking at the light of the lamp, does not know that the flame will burn it.
(742) A stupid man continues to sleep in a house though it is on fire, and unknowingly some one
cooks food in which some poison is mixed.
(743) Similar to all these, he does not realize that in the guise of this life in this body, it is death only
which is his fixed destiny.
