(744) He believes that the growth of his body is real, the day and night is a permanent duality, and
the enjoyment of pleasures from various objects is also real.
(745) But the poor man does not know that this whole thing is a grave loss, just as a prostitute feigns
to give everything but in actuality loots her customer.
(746) The friendship of a robber who accompanies the traveller on the road is tantamount to
murdering him, and to wash with water a picture drawn by colour is to wipe it out.
(747) The swelling of the body in anaemia is an indicator of the coming death and it is a false
appearance of stoutness. This man is deluded in the same way and takes pleasure in eating and
sleeping.
(748) Just as a man runs towards his own impaling stake is himself approaching death by every
forward step;
(749) Similarly as the enjoyments go on increasing with the increase in the age,
(750) The death is gradually eating the life of the man, just as the salt which is dissolved at the touch
of water.
(751) He does not become cognizant of the fact that with the lapse of time, his life-span is coming to
an end and death is approaching.
(752) In short, O the son of Pandu, being thus lulled by the soothing comforts and pleasures of his
body, this man does not see that every moment, there is death evidently finishing everything.
(753) O the man with great arms, there is no second opinion about the fact that such a man is the king
of the 'Country of Ignorance.'
(754) Just as he does not see the coming death, in his satisfaction of being alive, so also by the
strength of youth, he becomes oblivious to the approaching old age.
(755) Just as a cart toppling down on the slope or a boulder coming down the slope of a mountain
does not know what its fate is, this man does not see that there is old age in his destiny.
(756) This man becomes wild and uncontrollable, by the delusion of youth, just as a stream in the
wild forest runs amock in rainy season or just as two he- buffalos are engaged in a fierce fight.
(757) But his stoutness begins to be reduced, the lustre of his skin begins to fade and his head begins
to nod to and fro.
(758) The beard becomes grey, the neck moves left and right but still he is increasing his
possessions in the flow of illusion.
