(759) Just as a blind man does not know anything in the front before it strikes his chest or just as a
lazy man becomes more happy by the drowsiness of the eyes;
(760) Similarly, he who does not see the approaching old age, while he is enjoying his youth is
'ignorance made manifest.'
(761) Such a man ridicules somebody who is weak or a hunch-back or is crippled, but he is not
mindful that perhaps he will have to be in the same condition one day.
(762) Not only this, but though he clearly sees the signs of old age on his body, his delusion about
his youthfulness is not cleared.
(763) He should be known as the house of ignorance. There are more glaring signs of ignorance,-
which please listen to.
(764) A bull luckily escapes from a forest without being killed by the tiger roaming there and enters
the same dangerous forest again, foolishly sure about his life.
(765) Or a man who lucky enough to take out from the hole a treasure guarded by a serpent, without
being bitten by it, says that there is no serpent in that hole or if it is there, it is not biting.
(766) Similar to these examples, this ignorant man, when he finds that his health is not affected even
though he has broken the rules, thinks that there is no disease at all in his body.
(767) Or when a person or an animal sees that his enemy is asleep and thinks that the enmity and the
calamities are now ended, eventually meets certain death, together with his family.
(768) Similar to these examples, the ignorant man, while his acts of eating and sleeping are going on
without disturbance, becomes careless about any ailment so long as there is no actual attack.
(769) So long as this man is obtaining more and more objects of pleasure and money together with
his wife, children and family-members, he becomes blinded by the dust of that so-called
happiness.
(770) He is not aware that in one moment, there may be a disaster and everything will be taken away
from him putting him to much grief.
(771) O Pandava, such a man is ignorant and that man, who overfeeds his senses with their objects
of enjoyment is also a stupid person.
(772) By being pushed by his youth and having plenty of money to spend, he does not consider right
or wrong, while enjoying things and thus goes astray.
(773) He does what should not be done, his mind gets hold of things which are not probable and
