thinks about such matters which should not be allowed to enter into his thoughts.
(774) His mind and body rush where they should not go; demand things which they should not, and
embrace prohibited things, which they should not even touch.
(775) This ignorant man goes where he should not go, sees which he should not see; and takes
pleasure in eating food which he should not eat.
(776) He keeps company of undersirable persons, develops attachment for things which he should
avoid and goes by the path. where he should not step.
(777) He hears that which should not be heard, speaks which should not be spoken, but does not care
that there is sin in these things.
(778) Dear Arjuna, he commits any action only because he likes it, and gives it the name of 'duty',
without discrimination whether it is right or wrong.
(779) He does not at all realize "This will be my sin and I will have to suffer in the hell in future."
(780) By being resident in the life of such a man, ignorance becomes so powerful that it can affect
even the men of wisdom.
(781) But let this be kept aside. Please listen to more signs which are exactly applicable to ignorant
man and you will know them very clearly.
(782) His attachment to his family is so involved that it is like the attachment of the blue-beetle for
the fresh and fragrant flower.
(783) His mind tries to please woman by being totally enamoured by her, just as a house-fly does not
leave a lump of sugar.
(784) Just as a frog is happy in its dirty pond or a mosquito is caught in the drop of cough or just as a
buffalo is sitting pretty in its muddy pool,
(785) In the same way, his soul, mind and Pranas cannot escape from the net of his house. He is
happy reclining in his home like a serpent lying in a field.
(786) Just as a loving wife embraces her husband by putting her arms around his neck, this man sits
tight holding to his little hut.
(787) Just as the blue beetle madly hunts honey continuously, so he madly takes all the trouble to
conduct his family life.
(788) Just as parents of a child born to them late in life, love it beyond limit,
