(789) He has mad love for his home and he does not recognize anything else than his wife.
(790) While he is worshipping his wife with his heart and soul, he forgets "What he is" and "What is
his real duty."
(791) Just like when the mind of a really wise and knowledgeable sage is completely absorbed or
merged into the Absolute Brahman, his outward activities are stopped;
(792) So this man is totally concentrated about the comfort of his wife and in that love, he does not
give any heed to shame or loss of anything or what people will say.
(793) He always worships this woman like a deity, and to please her, he dances like the monkey of a
wandering juggler.
(794) He becomes tired himself, hurts the feelings of his friends but saves each ‘Paisa’ with all the
trouble.
(795) Similarly he becomes misery in giving anything in charity, deceives his relatives but gives
everything to his wife taking care that she would not feel any want.
(796) He somehow tries to do minimum worship to propitiate his pet deities, deceives his Guru by
telling lies and denies everything to his parents.
(797) But for pleasing his wife, he purchases whatever is the best available in the market, by paying
any high price.
(798) He does all types of service and worship for his wife, just like a really loving devotee
worships his family deity.
(799) He keeps reserved for his wife everything, which is special and selected, but does not even
give others their dues.
(800) He feels that there will be total cataclysm, if anybody would look at his wife or anybody will
contradict her.
(801) When someone promises that he will offer silver effigies of cobras to a goddess, he does not
break the promise for the fear of being afflicted by the ringworm infection; similarly this man
never fails to fulfil even a small desire of his wife.
(802) In short, O Dhananjaya, for him whom his wife is everything and the sons and daughters born
to her are the only objcts of his love.
(803) And for him whom all the belongings of his wife are very much dear, even more than his life,
