(804) Ignorance is the exact name and it is from him that ignorance gets all its strength! He is the
very idol of ignorance.
(805) In the sea if a boat is floating, it heaves high and low by the movement of the waves;
(806) Similarly he becomes a man of high spirits by a little pleasure and becomes the most
depressed man by any calamity.
(807) And when any man has an attitude of keenly examining the high and low in everything, you
should know that he is fool though he may be intellectually clever.
(808) He who worships me with a desire to have some selfish gain, and who dons the clothes of a
mendicant, with an ulterior motive to amass money through that deception.
(809) Or as the wife behaves with hypocritical love with her husband in order that she can stealthily
go to her illegal lover later on.
(810) Similarly, O the crowned one, the men worship Me outwardly but their inner attention is
towards the earning of money.
(811) And if such devotion does not give him his desired goal or benefit, he suddenly declares that
this devotion and worship is totally useless and quickly gives up his worship.
(812) Just as the agricultural lessee tills new pieces of land with selfish aims, he brings for worship
new idols of new gods, and worships every such new god with the same enthusiasm as before.
(813) When such a man sees special grandeur of any school of meditation, immediately learns the
mantra of that Guru who is present there, and disregards other mantras.
(814) He is very cruel to animals but worships trees and stones like gods and has no loyalty or faith
anywhere.
(815) He prepares an image for Me which he keeps in one corner of his house, but goes far away to
visit the temples of various gods and goddesses.
(816) He generally offers ritualistic worship to My image but worships the family deity when any
wedding etc. ceremony is there, and when there are special days dedicated to certain gods, he
goes out of the way to perform special rituals for them.
(817) He has my image properly consecreted in his own house, but takes vows to propitiate other
gods and when the days of performing certain ceremonics for his ancesters are there, he as if
becomes totally dedicated to those dead fore-fathers.
(818) He has equal respect for cobra worship on the fifth day of the month, as he has for me on the
