eleventh day of the month.
(819) He sees carefully if it is the fourth day and becomes a devotee of Ganesha, while, if it is the
fourteenth day of the month, he says- "O Goddess Durga! I am your servant!"
(820) On the ninth day he sits with determination for sacrifice called Nava-chandi Yadnya, and
when it is Sunday, he worships Kalabhairava and distributes mixed boiled rice as god-blessed
food.
(821) When it is Monday he takes with him the leaves of BEL tree (cratoeva religiosa) and runs to
the Shiva Temple. Thus he himself worships various gods.
(822) He is always on the run for doing various worships and never takes any halt, goes to various
temples, just like a harlot who pleases anybody.
(823) In this way, when you see such a devotee running here and there, you should know that he is
the very incarnation of ignorance.
(824) And when he sees a really quiet, clean and sacred place of worship, or a small garden meant
for meditation, or the sacred bank of a river, he is not interested, but is averse to them. Such a
man is also an ignorant man.
(825) He who loves crowd of ordinary people, who is absorbed in family festivals and becomes a
great lover of outward show of public ceremonies is also equally ignorant.
(826) And there is such a man who is prone to ridicule the really spiritual science by which it is
possible to have self-realization.
(827) He never cares to look into Upanishads; he does not relish the yoga practice, and his mind is
apathetic towards the spiritual wisdom in general.
(828) He demolishes the wall of good thought which considers that discussion about Atman is
something worth following; and allows his talents to run helter-skelter in all other useless
subjects.
(829) He who is very clever in the details of rituals of all kinds, he who has all mythological books
and references in them on the tip of his tongue; says that in the matter of astrology, whatever he
prophesies, proves to be true.
(830) He is expert in the art of sculpture; he is having mastery in cooking, and is adept in the use of
charms and mantras given in Atharva Veda.
(831) In the art of love he has nothing more to learn, he knows the Mahabharat epic thoroughly and
feels that all the Vedas become manifest in person before him.
