(832) He knows the morality quite well, he understands the medical science, and thinks that nobody
else is as smart in the matter of poetry and dramatics as he is.
(833) He gets pleasure in dry discussions on the laws of Manu etc; he knows the magic, and
vocabulary is for him only a slave to his intellect.
(834) He is expert in grammar. In logic he is very shrewd but in the science of spiritual wisdom, he
is as if born-blind.
(835) Except the spiritual science, he is the inventor of new principles but what is the use of that
knowledge? They say that one should not see the face of a son whose birth has taken place when
the zodiacal sign of "Moola Nakshatra" was prevalent. Similarly we should not see the face of
such a man and his knowledge.
(836) This knowledge of this man is like the eye-patterns on the feathers of peacock, which are
useless for seeing anything.
(837) My dear, even if a very small piece of the creeper named "Sanjeevani" is obtained, what need
is there to collect cart-loads of other medicinal herbs?
(838) Is it not stupid to give importance to the thirty-two good signs of a man, if he is dead, or give
value to ornaments without the head on the body, or musicians when the bride and bride-groom
are not present for the wedding?
(839) Similarly, O Partha, all other sciences are not of any value in the absence of the spiritual
science.
(840) Therefore, O Arjuna, in the case of a man who is only word-wise, but having no real
understanding of the spiritual science,
(841) His body is born as a growth of the seed of ignorance and all his erudition is nothing but the
vine of ignorance fully grown.
(842) Whatever he speaks is nothing but ignorance in blossom, and whatever fruit his meritorious
actions have brought out is nothing but ignorance.
(843) Further is it necessary to tell specifically that the man, who has absolutely no respect for the
spiritual wisdom, never sees the object of knowledge, which is Brahman?
(844) How can a man, who runs backwards when he approaches the bank of a river on this side,
ever get any information about the other bank?
(845) How can a man whose head is tied down at the outer threshold of the main door, ever see what
is happening in the recesses of the house?
