(846) Therefore, O Arjuna, where is any scope for knowing the real meaning of self knowledge for a
man, who is not at all conversant with the spiritual knowledge?
(847) Therefore, it is not necessary to put into words in a graphic style that this man does not know
the essence of the real knowledge.
(848) For example, if food is given to a woman who is pregnant, it also reaches the child in her
womb. So what is described here is already described earlier, while explaining what is
knowledge.
(849) Or just as when a blind man is invited, he comes accompanied by another man who can see,
so, when we tell about the signs of knowledge, they imply the signs of ignorance also. There is no
need to make special mention.
(850) Threrefore, in this verse, the signs of ignorance are mentioned as - "The signs which are
opposite to these."
(851) When the eighteen signs of knowledge are turned Opposite, they naturally indicate ignorance.
(saint Dhyneshwar says-)
(852) "In the earlier verse, the Lord Mukunda has by the half of the half portion of the verse, said
that ignorance is what is opposite to the knowledge.
(853) Therefore, following that statement. I have explained the subject. Had that indication not been
there, my detailed explanation of ignorance would have become like an act of adding water to
milk amounting to adulteration.
(854) So, I have not simply babbled like that. I have not transgressed the limit of the original term in
Sanskrit, and the meaning implied is only elucidated.
(855) Here the listeners said, "Enough with this explanation. This justification is not necessary. You
are the real 'nourishment' to all the poets. Why should you fear that your explanation will be too
lengthy?
(856) The Lord Murari has expressed his desire to you that whatever meanings he had kept
concealed in Geeta should be made clear by you.
(857) And you are simply fulfilling this desire of the Lord. But if we say this, it will arouse ecstacy
in your heart.
(858) Threrfore, we need not tell you all this. However, one thing we must tell you and that is that by
the pleasure in this listening we have really got a beautiful 'boat' of knowledge.
(859) Now you should immediately resume to tell us what the Lord Shri Hari said further."
