(860) Listening to this address by the saints, Dnyandeva, the disciple of Guru Nivruritti said- "O
Listeners! Please pay attention. The Lord said thus-
(861) He said, "O Pandava, you should know that the whole group of signs which you have heard so
far, is related to ignorance.
(862) I expect that you should turn your face away from this ignorance, and make a determination to
develop the signs of knowledge in you."
(863) Having thus a clear picture of what is knowledge, Arjuna had a desire to know how the mind
reaches and attains that which is the object of knowledge.
(864) At this, the Lord Shrikrishna, who is the king of clairvoyant persons, understood what was the
thought in Arjuna's mind and said- "I shall now tell the nature of what is the object of knowledge.
Please listen.
ेयं य पव यािम य ा वाऽमृतम ुते|
अनािदम परं ब न स नासदु यते
I shall tell you that which is the object of knowing, by understanding which the seeker enjoys the
deathless state, which is the beginningless Brahman supreme, which is called both as existing and
non-existing. (12)
(865) The thing is called the object of knowledge or the knowable, because it is not achieved by any
other means except by knowing.
(866) And by knowing it, there is nothing more remaining to be done; because, by knowing it, the
knower becomes the known itself.
(867) When it is known, the knower can leave the worldly life far away on the shore and can jump
and merge into the sea of eternal joy.
(868) That which has no beginning,– and the supreme Brahman is its other name,– is, my dear,
knowable or the object of knowledge.
(869) It is such that if we say that it is not existing, we see it as the whole universe and if we say that
the universe is "That", this universe is itself unreal.
(870) It has no shape, no colour, no manifest form, and it is neither the seen, nor the seer, nor the
state of seeing. Therefore, who can say that it is existing?
(871) And if it is truly not existing, the question arises as to on what base all the principles like
Mahat etc. are emerging and appearing.
