(884) Anyway, O the man of supreme intellect! The Vedas have already used the term as the Being
with ears everywhere," concerning its universal expanse, as a matter of figure of speech.
(885) Actually, the terms like hands, eyes and feet etc., are not applicable in this matter, because it
cannot even tolerate its definition as the 'Total Void'
(886) For example, when one wave envelops another earlier wave, we describe it as such, but is
there any difference between the two waves? Is there not the same water only?
(887) Similarly, when there is only one existence throughout, where is there the scope to call
something which 'occupies' and something which 'is occupied' but, for the sake of communication,
it is necessary to use some language.
(888) Just as in order to show nothingness, we write the round sign of zero, similarly to indicate
non-duality, we speak some words, which fall into the field of duality.
(889) If we do not resort to this method, the very traditional chain of the 'Teacher and the Taught' on
the path of liberation will be dissolved and all the talk will be nullified,
(890) Therefore, in Vedas the path of non-duality is opened through duality and is made to operate
continuously.
(891) Now, therefore, listen as to how that Brahman is premeating everything which has a form
perceptible by our senses.
सवि दयगुणाभासं सवि दयिवविजतम्|
अस ं सवभृ चैव िनगुणं गुणभो ृ च
It has the appearance of having all the organs and their qualities but actually it has nothing of the
sort. It is unattached but holds everything, it is beyond qualities but enjoys the qualities. (14)
(892) But Arjuna, it is like the sky in the space, or the thread in the cloth taking the form of the cloth.
(893) It is taste in water but becomes water and remains in it, and as the brightness remains in the
lamp by being a lamp.
(894) It is like the fragrance which remains in the camphor by becoming the camphor or as Karma
remains in the body taking the form of the body.
(895) Or when the gold is in the form of a chip, we call it the chip. When that chip is melted in some
other form, we call it as gold which is melted.
(896) When in the form of the chip, it is chip, but is called gold when its form is changed.
