(897) Even if the shape of the stream is crooked, water is not essentially crooked, and when the iron
becomes hot in fire, it is fire only and not iron alone.
(898) The space within the pot seems to be of a round shape and the space in the room seems to be
of a square shape.
(899) But these shapes are not in the space or the sky itself. Similarly, the Brahman seems to be
distorted but it is not actually distorted.
(900) O Dhananjaya, the Brahman seems to be shaped by the organs with the mind as their principal
organ, and by the qualities viz. Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas.
(901) But the sweetness of jaggery is not in the shape of the cake made of it and similarly, the organs
and the qualities are not the Brahman.
(902) You see, when the Ghee is in the milk, it is called milk only; but when that Ghee is separated
from that milk, it is called Ghee and it is not considered as milk any longer.
(903) Similarly, O Kapidhwaja, you should know that the Brahman is not distorted by the qualities
and the organs, just as when the gold is used to prepare various ornaments we call it by these
names of the ornaments, but the original gold is gold only, in any shape.
(904) In short, to tell this in simple clear language is to say that Brahman is different from the
qualities and the organs.
(905) The differences of name, shape, relationship, category, and the activity etc., are related to the
form only. They are not related to the Brahman.
(906) It is not of the nature of the qualities or related to them but they appear to be existing on it.
(907) O the crowned one! Because of this false appearance only, people who are deluded think that
these distortions are belonging to Brahman.
(908) If we say that the Brahman does bear these qualities etc., it is like saying that the sky holds the
clouds, or mirror holds our reflection which appears to be in it.
(909) Or like water holding the reflection of the Sun, or the rays of the Sun holding the mirage.
(910) Similarly this Absolute Brahman may be said to hold or bear these qualities or distortions, or
modifications (whatever we may call them) without being related to them; but it is false
perception.
(911) So, to think that the quality-less Brahman holds and enjoys the qualities, is like a pauper
enjoying the glory of the kingdom in his dream.
