(912) Therefore, we should not say that there is connection between the qualities and the Brahman
which is without them, or that it enjoys the qualities.
बिहर त भूतानामचरं चरमेव च|
सू म वा दिव ेयं दूर थं चाि तक
े च यत्
It (Brahman) is inside and outside of all the Beings; it is moving as well as not moving; it cannot
be known because of its subtleness. It is very far away and also very near. (15)
(913) O the son of Pandu, it is in the animate and inanimate things just like the heat and the fire
which are not different.
(914) It is eternally permeating everything in its very subtle nature and thus the 'Knowable' should be
understood.
(915) It is one alone, being in and out, near and far away, and there is no otherness in it.
अिवभ ं च भूतेषु िवभ िमव च ि थतम्|
भूतभतृ च त ेयं गिस णु पभिव णु च
Though it is not divided in itself, it remains in the Beings as if divided and it should be known as
the bearer of all the Beings, the one which grasps all the things and has the sweep of its influence
over all the things. (16)
(916) Just as the sweetness of the ocean of milk is not more in the middle and less in the periphery,
so, it is total, complete everywhere.
(917) Though it completely occupies all the categories of beings (like those born
of omniotic fluid, or through sweat, or by way of eggs or through the earth itself,) there is no
lacunae of any kind in that Brahman because of the peculiar limitations of these catogaries.
(918) Further, O the greatest of listeners! Just as there is no differences in the moon-light which may
fall in water kept in thousands of pots;
(919) Or just as the taste of each and every particle of salt is not different, or in the innumerable
sugar-canes, the sweetness is not varied;
(920) Similarly, O Arjuna, it occupies equally every Being, and is also the primary cause of these
Beings coming into existence.
(921) Therefore, just as the sea is the supporter of all the waves on it, this Knowable is the support
of all the existences, having various names and forms, which are appearing to be produced by it
only.
