(922) It is equal in all the states of birth, existence and the end, just as there is only one body which
assumes the three states (of childhood, youth and oldage.)
(923) It is just like the sky which does not undergo change though the phases of the day differ in the
morning, noon and evening.
(924) My dear, it is called Brahma at the time of creation, Vishnu during its outward existence,
(925) And it is called Rudra when this form is dissolved, and when the trinity of the qualities is
completely gone, it is called the Void.
(926) That which swallows the apparent V
oid of the sky, and which makes the trinity of the qualities
non-existent, is thus the nothingness which is called by the Vedas as the Great V
oid or
Mahashoonya.
योितषामिप त योित तमसः परमु यते|
ानं ेयं ानग यं िद सव य िधि तम्
It is the supreme light of all the stars and is called far removed from the darkness, and it is the
knowledge, the process of knowing and the object of knowing, as also the thing which is established
in the heart of all Beings. (17)
(927) It is the brightness of the fire, it is the life of the Moon, and by it the Sun sees with its eyes.
(928) The galaxies of stars shine by its light and the great light reigns supreme in the universe
because of its power.
(929) It is the beginning of the beginning, it is the growth of the growth, it is the intellect of the
intellect and it is the soul of the soul.
(930) It is the mind of the mind, it is the eye of the eye, it is the ear of the ear and the speech of the
speech.
(931) It is the vital breath of the vital breath, it is the feet of the movement, and the doership of the
action is because of it only.
(932) Because of it, the form takes the form, the expansion is expanded, and O the son of Pandu, the
annihilation takes place because of it only.
(933) It is the earth of the earth, it is water, drinking water, and by its brilliance the light gets the
brightness as if its lamp is lit.
(934) It is the breathing of the wind, it is the space of the sky and in short, all the appearances come
