(949) Otherwise, O the bravest of men, if we say that "All this is Atman," your inquisitive mind will
not agree with that general statement.
(950) Therefore, as I saw the slowness of your intellect in grasping abstract finalities, I simplified
one doctrine in four divisions.
(951) We have told you one principle only by divisions of four features, just as for a child, the food
is divided in twenty- odd morsels.
(952) Knowing the scope of your attention I have made four divisions as the field, the knowledge,
the ignorance and the object of knowledge.
(953) And if even in this way you cannot get what is told, we will tell you the subject in one form of
expression only.
(954) Now I will not make four divisions, and will not propose the unity, but will consider the
Atman and non-Atman in one unified whole.
(955) But you should give us what we demand. You should yourself become all ears, for listening.
(956) At this request of the Lord Shrikrishna, Arjuna had an ecstasy! Then the Lord said- "Wait!
Wait! Don't be carried away by your emotion!"
(957) Thus holding in check the outburst of pious ecstasy in Arjuna, the Lord Shrirang said, "Listen!
We are going to tell the difference between the Prakriti and the Purusha (Male-Female elements).
(958) This system of philosoply is called "Saankhya" by Yogis in the popular language, and for
expounding it, I had been here as an incarnation named Kapila.
(959) The primordial Purusha viz. Shrikrishna said to Arjuna, "Please listen to what is the exact and
correct difference between the Prakriti and the Purusha."
पक
ृ ितं पु षं चैव िव यनादी उभाविप|
िवकारां गुणां ैव िवि पक
ृ ितसंभवान्
Please know both the Prakriti and the Purusha as beginnigless and understand that the distortions
and modes as born of Prakriti. (19).
(960) The Purusha is beginningless and Prakriti is also similarly beginningless. They are eternal as
the day and night.
(961) The form is surely a fact but with it, the shadow is also there. O Dhananjaya, together with the
grain, the husk also grows in the crop.
