(962) Similarly these two, viz. the Purusha and the Prakriti are both beginningless and as if bound
together.
(963) Now I have described here what is the field. You should know that it is the Prakriti.
(964) And the Knower of the field whom I have described earlier, is the Purusha, which is also
evident, without being repeated.
(965) I have to tell you again that though these two names are separate, the thing which is under
proposition is only one. This point should not be missed hence- forward.
(966) So, O the son of Pandu, know that whatever is the power of movement is Purursha, and the
actual activity is Prakriti.
(967) All the modulations like intellect, organs and the mind, as also the three Qualities viz Sattwa,
etc. –
(968) All this group is the Prakriti, and know that this has become instrumental for action to take
place.
कायकरणकतृ वे हेतुः पक
ृ ित यते|
पु षः सुखदुःखानां भो ृ वे हेतु यते
This Prakriti is the cause and instrumental for coming into existence of the action, the instrument
or means of that action and the agency doing that action, while Purusha is called the cause or the
factor for actually receiving of the fruit of that Action as pleasure or pain. (20)
(969) Prakriti first creates the ego, desire and intellect and then joins them with the cause of action.
(970) And all the activities which are to be yoked in order to take that desire to fruition is called the
Action; O Dhananjaya!
(971) Then the Prakriti disturbs the mind by the force of the desire and the mind directs the organs-
which is the Doership of the Prakriti.
(972) Therefore, Prakriti is behind all these three viz, action, the instruments, and the agency doing
that action;" thus said the king of all Siddhas.
(973) Thus Prakriti takes the shape of action by these three factors, but its characteristics depend on
the quality or Guna, which is more prevalent.
(974) That action which is done in the prevalence of Sattwa is called good-action, and which takes
place in the prevalence of Rajas is a mediocre action.
