(975) And know that the actions which happen when the quality of Tamas is predominant, are
prohibited and irreligious actions.
(976) Thus, good and bad actions are done by the Prakriti and pain or pleasure are produced by
them.
(977) Pain is produced by bad deeds and happiness is caused by good deeds, and the suffering or
enjoyment of either is called the lot of the Purusha.
(978) So long as the pleasure and pain appear as reality, the Prakriti is seen doing all these activities
and Purusha appears to take the results.
(979) The family life of this couple of Prakriti and Purusha is really strange; because here the wife
who is the Prakriti earns everything and the husband who is the Purusha plucks the fruits.
(980) Generally the hunband and the wife do not much agree with each other, but see the wonder of
it! The wife alone delivers the child which is the whole world.
पु षः पक
ृ ित थो िह भु े पक
ृ ितजा गुणान्|
कारणं गुणस गोऽ य सदस ोिनज मसु
Purusha, when dwelling within the field which is Prakriti enjoys the three qualities born of
Prakriti the cause of which is that he comes into contact with the various Gunas or qualities when he
takes births in good or bad categories of beings. (21)
(981) The husband has no body, no proper limbs, no money, and he is older than the oldest.
(982) Only his surname is Purusha (Male) but he is neither male nor female nor a eunuch; nothing is
definite about him.
(983) He is having no eyes, no ears, no hands, no feet, no form, no colour or name.
(984) O Arjuna, thus where there is nothing at all, he is the husband of the Prakriti but even such as
he is, he has to suffer the pleasure and pains.
(985) He is not a doer. He is indifferent. He is really not concerned about any enjoyments, but the
wife who is really the most faithful one, makes him sustain all the good or bad results.
(986) ‘She’ somehow manipulates her beauty and her character, and performs any dramatic tricks
and magics.
(987) This Prakriti is having the name Gunamayi meaning composed of Qualities; or rather she is the
solid image of the Qualities; or she is the Qualities with all their limbs.
