(988) She is new every moment, she is totally made of the form and the Qualities and by her power
even the inanimate things become energized.
(989) She is famous by this name, and by the affectionate intimacy she awakens the organs into
activity; the attachment and attractions being the oil.
(990) Actually the mind is of neuter gender, but becuase of her power, it can enjoy all the three
worlds. Such is the variety of her skillful achievements which are supernormal.
(991) She is the great island of confusion, and she is the shape of all occupation, and innumerable
disturbances of the three Gunas are all the actions of this Prakriti.
(992) She is the overhead canopy which supports the creeper of desire; she is the riches of spring
season in the garden of attracions and divine illusion is her famous name.
(993) She is the growth and development of literature; she is the builder of forms and she is always
attacking man with his affection for family life.
(994) She is the native place of Arts and the creator of Sciences. she is the mother of desire,
knowledge and acion.
(995) She is the mint of all sounds, she is the home of miracles, and the whole universal game is her
play.
(996) The creation and the destruciton of this world are her morning and evening. In short this
Prakriti is a great Charmer.
(997) She is the companion of unity. She is the ralative of the unrelated and she happily resides in
the Void by building houses in it.
(998) The expanse and the scope of her glorious power is such that by its strength, she can keep
under control the Purusha, who is beyond control.
(999) Actualy, there is absoluely nothing belonging to that Purusha. He is totally disinterested, but it
is this Prakriti who herself becomes everything for him.
(1000) She becomes the creation of the self-evident, image of the formless and also the fixed state
for him.
(1001) She becomes the need of the Purusha, who does not need anything, satisfaction of him who is
always self-satisfied and becomes the family and 'Gotra' (ancestry) of him who is not born.
(1002) She becomes the attributes of him, who is beyond description, measurement of the
immeasurable, mind of the Purusha who is beyond mind and the intellect of him, who is beyond
