intellect.
(1003) She becomes form of the formless, action of the non-actor, ego of the egoless, and
(1004) She becomes the name of the nameless, birth of the birthless and action of the actionless.
(1005) She is the quality of him, who is free of all qualities, feet of him, who has no feet, ears of him
who has no ears, and eyes of him who has no eyes.
(1006) She bcomes the existence of him, who is not existent and the limbs of him, who has no
separate limbs. In short this Prakriti hereself becomes everything for the Purusha.
(1007) Thus by the expanse of the influence of Prakriti, the Purusha who is without any distortions,
is pulled down into those distortions.
(1008) The masculinity of this Purusha is there, only because of the existence of this Prakriti, just as
the Moon becomes dark, when it is in the darkest night of the month.
(1009) Just as the gold which contains even a very little of some cheaper material, becomes of
lesser value.
(1010) Or a pious person behaves wildly when possessed by a ghost or by the profusion of many
dark clouds, a good day bcomes a miserably dull day.
(1011) It is like milk which is hidden in the body of a cow, or fire hidden in wood or a crystal lamp
wrapped in a cloth.
(1012) Or like a king who becomes poor, when defeated by other king or like a lion who is down
with some serious ailment- so the Purusha loses his power by being identified with Prakriti.
(1013) Just as a man, who is awake, suddenly goes to sleep and finds himself overpowered by very
dirty desires.
(1014) Similarly this Purusha has to suffer the consequences of actions due to the qualities of this
Prakriti, and just as a man who is otherwise free from desire, becomes suddenly enslaved by a
woman;
(1015) Similarly the eternal Purusha, who has no birth, suffers from birth and death because of the
entrapment by the Gunas or the qualities of Prakriti.
(1016) Ordinary people think that the heavy beating which a hot iron bar receives is suffered by the
fire.
(1017) Or when the reflections of the Moon become multiple when the water is disturbed, ordinary
