persons think that the moon has become multiple.
(1018) Or our own face when seen in a mirror in front of it appears to have been doubled or a clear
glass bead seems to be red, if placed on a little amount of red lead.
(1019) Similarly by being associated with the qualities, the Purusha who is birthless seems to be
born but if that association is not there, that delusion does not take place.
(1020) A Sanyasi is normally not belonging to any caste. But if he sees in a dream, that he belongs to
a certain low caste, he is confused and feels so. Similarly this Purusha also appears to have gone
to take birth in various categories of Beings.
(1021) Therefore, the really unattached Purusha, who is alone, never receives or suffers any results
of any actions. The root of being subjected to these results is in the state of being identified with
the qualities of Prakriti.
उपद ानुम ता च भता भो ा महे रः|
परमा मेित चा यु ो देेहेऽि मन् पु ष परः
The Purusha is beyond, but in this body he is called the advisor, the giver of consent, the
supporter, the enjoyer of sense- objects, the great God Almighty and also the Parmatman (22).
(1022) This Purusha is erect and still within the Prakriti, but it is like a pillar which supports the
creeper of juee, and his relation with the Prakriti is so far removed from each other as between
the sky and the earth.
(1023) O Arjuna of a good crown! He is like the mountain Meru by the side of the river that is
Prakriti and though his reflection in that river is moving, he is not moving.
(1024) There is creation and destruction going on in the Prakriti, but he is the constant, the eternal,
and therefore, he becomes the controller of all from the Brahma to the little ant.
(1025) Prakriti gets the Jeeva, or the life from him, and on the base of his power she gives birth to
the world, and therefore he is like the husband supporting her.
(1026) He is the state in which all the worlds which are continuously created by her, merge at the
time of the end of Kalpa, that is final dissolution at the end of great cosmic period.
(1027) He is the great authority of the Mahat, which is the vast nature of Prakriti. He holds the ropes
which direct the universe, and being immeasurably vast, he measures up the world.
