(1028) And the one who is called as Paramatman in this body is he himself.
(1029) He is the Purusha about whom, O the son of Pandu, people say that he is beyond the Prakriti.
य एवं वेि पु षं पक
ृ ितं च गुणैः सह|
सवथा वतमानोऽिप न स भूयोऽिभजायते
He who knows this Purusha to be like this and also knows the Prakriti with her qualities, though
living actively in this world. does not take birth again (23)
(1030) He who knows the Purusha clearly like this and knows that the (three) qualities are the
products of Prakriti.
(1031) O Dhananjaya, this analysis is like knowing that this is the form, this other is the shadow of
the form, the reflection of the form and that the water is the Maya or Prakriti.
(1032) O Arjuna, he to whom the differentiation of the Prakriti and Purusha is clear like that,
(1033) May do all activites by being in this body but is free of them, just as the sky is not actually
dirtied by the fog.
(1034) Even though he has the body, if he is not caught in its attachment, he will not be born again
after his present body comes to an end.
(1035) You should thus always make the distinction between the Purusha and Prakriti which is really
good for you to know.
(1036) Now, please listen to the various ways which help this distinction to be active in the mind
like the Sun who has arisen.
यानेना मिन प यि त क
े िचदा मानमा मना|
अ ये सां येन योगेन कमयोगेन चापरे
Some see this Paramatman within themselves by way of meditation, some see the Atman by the
Atman only and some see it separate from Prakriti through the system of thinking according to the
Saankhya Philosophy while yet others understand him by way of the Yoga of Action. (24)
(1037) O the great warrior! Some kindle the fire of discrimination and burn the dross by the constant
hammering of the thought of what is knowledge, what is essenial and what is not essential
relatively with Atman.
(1038) Thus they, one by one, discard the different thirtysix divisions of Prakriti and get the pure
gold of the Absolute Brahman, separated from them.
