(1039) They see themselves as the Absolute Brahman through self-knowledge in their meditation.
(1040) Some others who are fortunate, pay close attention to the Absolute principle through the Yoga
of Saankhyas while others accept all the actions which are laid down for them, but wihout
attachment.
अ ये वेवमजान तः शु वा ये यः उपासते|
तेऽिप चािततर येव मृ युं शुितपरायणाः
Others, however who do not know this, listen to the advice given by others and thus being good
listeners they are also liberated from the Death. (25)
(1041) It is true that in so many ways as described, they dissipite the fear of this worldly life.
(1042) And there are some others who give up all pride and with one-pointed faith, they follow
steadfastly the advice given by one wise man, or the master.
(1043) Those wise men who know clearly what is good and what is not; who have compassion
about the sufferers, and by carefully asking about the cause of suffering they relieve the suffering
of people.
(1044) The faithful seekers listen with respect to what is spoken by these men of wisdom, and make
themselves one with that advice by both the body and the mind.
(1045) They believe that just in that listening alone all the necessary penance takes place and
surrender their life and soul at the altar of those words.
(1046) O Kapidhwaja, they also finally come out of this sea of birth and death safely by their faith.
(1047) So, there are these various paths for knowing the only one Absoute Reality.
(1048) But let us keep this lengthy description aside. Now we will simply place on your open palm
the butter of the final single truth which is churned out of all the opinions, and that will be enough.
(1049) O the son of Pandu, this is sufficient for you to do by which you will have the realisation of
the Brahman. You will not need to undertake any other efforts.
(1050) For that purpose only, we will discard all the arguments of others in this matter and will
describe for you the essence of all doctrines which is the final truth.
याव संजायते िक
ं िच स वं थावरजंगमम्|
ेत ेत संयोगा ि ि भरतषभ
