O the great Hero of Bhrarats, whatever inanimate thing or animate being is born it is only through
to mixture of the field and the knower of field, which fact you should clearly understand. (26)
(1051) I have explained to you that the knower is the self and I have also told you that the whole
world is the field.
(1052) All this world of beings is the product of the mating of these two, just as by the force of wind
there arise waves on water.
(1053) For example, mirage appears when bright sunrays fall on the arid desert land.
(1054) Or there grow innumerable sprouts out of the earth when the whole land is full of water by
the heavy showers of rain.
(1055) Similarly, whatever is known by the name of Jeeva, is produced by coming together of the
two elements.
(1056) Therefore, know this, O Arjuna, that actually all the creatures are not separate from the
knower himself.
समं सवषु भूतेषु ित तं परमे रम्|
िवन य विवन य तं यः प यित स प यित
One who sees the Almightly God as equal in all the beings, established permanently,
indestructible among all perishable things, is the real seer. (27).
(1057) Consider that cloth itself is not the thread but it so appears because of the thread in it. Thus
the unity of the field and the knower of the field should be minutely seen.
(1058) There are many beings but they are all the manifestations of the one. This should be verified
by you by self-knowledge.
(1059) Their names are different and their behaviour is different as also their conditions and attires
etc., are different.
(1060) O Arjuna, by seeing this, if you maintain the idea in your mind that all are really different,
you will not be free even after crores of births.
(1061) For example, the creeper of the gourd has fruits of various shapes and sizes of it, such as
large, longish, twisted, small, etc.
(1062) The branches of a berry tree may be either straight or crooked, but the fact that they are of the
berry tree does not change by that; similarly the beings may be of any shape, but the Atman is
