straight.
(1063) The heat in the various embers of fire is the same; similarly in all the groups of innumerable
forms, the Supreme God is the same.
(1064) He is the same in the forms of all the beings just as in all the drops of rain, water and the
wind are common factors.
(1065) Just as the space is the same, may it be within a pot or in a room, so, the various beings are
different but the Absolute Thing (Paramatman) is common to all.
(1066) When this appearance of various beings will be destroyed, the Atman remains undestroyed
just as the gold is common in various ornaments like ‘keyoora’.
(1067) So, only he who knows that the Atman is united in a way with all beings but is different from
the conditioning and limitations of their forms, should be recognized as having real insight among
all those who are able to see.
(1068) O the leader of all brave people; he should be considered as the real clairvoyant among all
the seers. This is not a praise. Really this man is the most fortunate.
समं प यन् िह सवत समवि थतमी रम्|
न िहन या मना मानं ततो याित परां गितम्
When he looks for equality in all the manifestations and thus realizes that God is equally
established everywhere, he does not cause his own death, but goes on towards the highest ranges of
spiritual evolvement (28)
(1069) This body is a sack of the three qualities like Sattwa, etc.), the trinity of three substances (vi.
cough, wind and bile) and a mixture of the five elements (earth, water etc.) and it is really a very
fierce combination.
(1070) This is virtually a scorpion with five poisonous tails, or a fire flaring up from five directions
(or sense-organs) or it is as if the stable of tender deers, found by the lion who is the Jeeva.
(1071) When one is so caught in this body, who will not thrust the stilleto of "ephemeral nature" in
the chest of false notion of "permanent nature" of this body and free himself from it?
(1072) But Arjuna, the fact is that, the wise man though living in this body, never destroys his self -
awareness as Atman, and naturally at the time of death of the body also, remains in the same state
of Atman.
(1073) The state from which, Yogis always say that they will not come down to the mundane world
