all the expansion has taken place from that only, he attains the Brahman (30).
(1084) O Arjuna, a man can only attain Brahman, when he sees all the various forms of beings
contained in one Atman.
(1085) They are as the waves in the water, dust particles in the earth, and rays in the Sun.
(1086) Or like the limbs of a body, or moods in the mind, or the embers or sparks of the fire.
(1087) Similarly when the vision is able to see all the forms of beings, belonging to the one
principle, then only the boat of the riches or glory of the state of Brahman is at hand (and thus the
seeker is saved from drowning in the sea of worldly life).
(1088) Then the eyes are opened by Brahman only to see each and everything, or in short he enjoys
the limitless bliss.
(1089) Thus, O Partha, you have properly known the realationship of Prakriti and Purusha, in all
their facets.
(1090) You should consider this as such a fortunate thing, as receiving a handful of nectar
unexpectedly or suddenly finding a big treasure.
(1091) But, O the husband of Subhadra, you should not carry in your mind any conclusive opinion
about this, without actual experience, but you should keep that decison in abeyance.
(1092) There are still one or two words to be told to you which are very important; but first you
should keep your mind as a hostage with me and then only listen to these words.
(1093) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says)- In this way he Lord Shrikrishna said and continued further which
Arjuna began to hear with all his body.
अनािद वाि नगुण वात् परमा माऽयम ययः|
शरीर थोऽिप कौ तेय न करोित न िल यते
O the son of Kunti, this Paramatman is imperishable because it is having no beginning and having
no modifications, and eventhough he is in the body, he does not do anything nor becomes affected.
(31)
(1094) So, please understand that Paramatman is like the Sun whose reflection falls in the water, but
he does not become wet by it.
(1095) Because the Sun is before the water and even after the removal of the water, and O the
crowned one, only in the period in between he appears to others as if fallen into water, but he is
where he is.
