(1096) Similarly to say that Atman resides in the body is not correct, because Atman is in his own
state wherever he is, permanantly.
(1097) When we see the reflection of our face in the mirror, we say that our face is in the mirror,
Similarly it is said that Atman is within the body.
(1098) It is totally wrong to say that the Atman and the body meet each other, because is there any
meeting between the sand and the wind?
(1099) Is it possible to sew together the fire and the cotton by any thread? How can there be a joint
between the stone and the sky?
(1100) Supposing one person is going to the east, and the other is going to the west. This meeting of
Atman and the body is like the meeting of those two persons.
(1101) Please know that the meeting between the Atman and the body is like the meeting of light and
darkness or the similarity between the dead and the living.
(1102) The difference between these two is as clear as that between the night and the day, or the
gold and the cotton.
(1103) Now see that this body is formed by the five elements and is tied tightly by the bondage of
Karma, and it is continuously revolving on the wheel of birth and death.
(1104) This body is like a little ball of butter, kept in the mouth of the fire of death, and is prone to
end in the short time, which a fly takes to flutter its tiny wings.
(1105) If this body is put into fire, it will be turned to ashes, and if dogs eat it, its destiny is excreta
of the dogs.
(1106) And if at all it is not subjected to these conditions then the maggots will definitely turn it into
a disintegrating, rotting heap. In short, O Kapidhwaja, whatever may be its destiny, it is definitely
miserably obnoxious.
(1107) Such is the condition of this body, but the Atman is beginningless and therefore, eternal and
self-sufficient.
(1108) Being abstract he is not with parts or cannot be said to be without parts. He is neither
dormant nor active. He is neither thin nor fat.
(1109) As he has no shape, he is neither appearing nor non- appearing, neither clear nor hidden;
neither small nor large.
