(1110) As he is void, he is neither empty nor filled, neither alone nor accompanied, neither
embodied nor disembodied.
(1111) Being Atman himself, he is neither joyful or without joy, neither one, nor varied; neither free
nor bound.
(1112) As he is outside the ken of sight, he is neither this much nor that much; he is neither
readymade nor constructed; neither talking nor quiet.
(1113) He is not constructed by the creation of nature, he is not destroyed by the universal destrucion
and he is in a way the end of both the terms viz. 'He is'; or 'He is not'.
(1114) He is not deteriorated; he cannot be measured nor described; does not increase or decrease,
does not get pale nor die!
(1115) When Atman is as described above, when it is said that he lives in the body, that statement is,
my dear friend Arjuna, like calling the space in a room to have the shape of a room.
(1116) It is like saying that the forms of bodies come and go but Atman is as he is.
(1117) The bodies come and go on the back drop of Atman just like the night and the day take place
and end under the sky.
(1118) Therefore, though thus seemingly in the body, he does not cause anything to be done nor does
he do anything, and does not even set about doing any action which presents itself.
(1119) Thus, there is no decrease or completion applicable to him and in short he is not affected by
the body though he is appearing to be in the body.
यथा सवगतं सौ यादाकाशं नोपिल यते|
सवतावि थतो देहे तथा मा नोपिल यते
Just as the sky which is everywhere is not smeared by anything because it is very subtle, similarly
the Atman, who is everywhere and also in the body does not get affected. (32)
(1120) My dear, the sky cannot be said to be not existing anywhere (it is everywhere), but it is not
polluted anywhere.
(1121) Similarly the Atman is everywhere in all the bodies completely, but it does not become dirty
by anything.
(1122) This sign is again and again explained to you so that you should know that the knower of the
field is separate from the field.
