यथा पकाश येकः क
ृ नं लोकिममं रिवः|
ेतं ेती तथा क
ृ नं पकाशयित भारत
O Bharata, just as the sun alone gives light to this whole world, similiarly the owner of the field
(the knower of the field) gives light to the whole field. (33)
(1123) When iron comes in contact with a magnet it moves but it is not the magnet. Similar is the
relationship between the field and the knower of the field.
(1124) The activities in a house go on in the light of a lamp; but there is vast difference between the
lamp and the house.
(1125) O the crowned one, the fire is dormant in the wood, but fire is not wood; the knower of the
field should be seen in that manner.
(1126) When you see thoughtfully, you will know that the difference between the knower of the field
and the field is similar to the difference between the sky and the clouds or the Sun and the mirage.
(1127) But let this all be. Just as one Sun gives light to everything and makes various things in all the
worlds visible, including the sky,
(1128) Similarly the knower of the field in this case gives light to all the things appearing in the
field. Now do not ask any questions or raise doubts about this matter.
ेत ेत योरे वम तरं ानच ुषा|
भूतपक
ृ ितमो ं च ये िवदुयाि त ते परम्
Those who know by the eyes of knowledge the difference between the field and the knower of the
field as well as the freedom from the elements and the Prakriti, go to the supreme abode. (34)
(1129) My dear Arjuna, you are the knower of essence of the real meaning of the words. Now, it is
that intelligence which is truely able to see, which sees the inequality between the field and
knowner of the field.
(1130) In order to know the difference between these two, the clever people approach the door of
the house of the men of wisdom.
(1131) The saints maintain the glory of peace, and maintain the cows of scriptures who give milk,
taking their care in their own houses.
(1132) With the hope of gaining this knowledge, some seekers try to reach the sky of the study of
yoga with a great spirit of adventure.
