(1133) Some discard all their possessions as if these are merely blades of grass and turn to the
service of the feet of these saints.
(1134) In this way many people take great troubles, being inspired for attaining self-knowledge by
such various paths.
(1135) Then those who have really understood the difference between the field and the knower of
the field through these efforts, will be honoured by us, by presentation of festival lights before
them.
(1136) And this false illusory Prakriti which is decorated by the varieties of the great elements etc.,
which has spread all over,
(1137) Which becomes binding to each according to his imagination like the case of the parrot being
tied down on the hanging tube, though it is not really binding.
(1138) And the false appearance of serpent on the garland should be removed and the eyes should
correctly see the garland.
(1139) Or the illusion of silver on the shell should be removed and the shell should be seen clearly
as it is.
(1140) In this way, those who know in their consciousness that the Prakriti is different from the
Purusha, really become one with the absolute Brahman- this is my opinion.
(1141) That Brahman is vaster than the sky. It is the other border beyond the unmanifest, and when it
is attained, the differences or the similarities are out of question.
(1142) It is that non- duality, where the form dissolves, the state of being a Jeeva disappears; and
duality ends.
(1143) Dear Partha, those who are like the king swan in bifurcating the Atman and the non-Atman,
become that supreme principle by themselves, about which I have said these things.
(1144) In this way, the Lord Shrikrishna gave the explanation of the Atman and the non-Atman to his
friend Arjuna, in all its aspects.
(1145) The Lord Shrikrishna gave all the self-knowledge to Arjuna without keeping anything back,
just like the contents of a jar which are emptied completely into another jar.
(1146) Further here who is the giver and who is the receiver? Arjuna was the sage 'Nara', who is
none else than Narayana. In addition, Shrikrishna says that he is himself Arjuna.
(1147) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says) - But let it be. Why should I change the subject unnecessarily
