without being asked? The essence of all this is that the Lord had given all his knowledge to
Arjuna.
(1148) But the result was that Arjuna did not say ‘enough’. His desire to listen to the knowledge
went on increasing.
(1149) Just as when some more oil is put into a lamp, the flame becomes brighter, similarly the
desire to hear more was enhanced by the act of listening.
(1150) Then just like serving of the food and eating it goes on and on when the cook is specially
adept in preparing recipes, and the diners are real gourmets,
(1151) Similar was the case with the Lord Shrikrishna. He had four times more inspiration to speak
more and more by the increasing eagerness of Arjuna to listen.
(1152) Just as with the proper wind, the cloud develops swiftly in the sky and just as the sea has
high tide by the rising of Moon, similarly I am having great flood of inspiation because of the
interest shown by the audience."
(1153) Sanjaya said, "O Your Majesty, you may please listen further as the Lord Shrikrishna will fill
the universe with great joy.
(1154) Dnyanadev says, "In this way, the story of Geeta, which Shri Vyasa has told by his supreme
intellect in the Bheeshma Parva in the epic Mahabharata;
(1155) Is the dialogue between the Lord Shrikrishna and Arjuna which I am telling clearly in the
beautiful and sophisticated Marathi language in the form of Ovi.
(1156) The story which I am going to tell is pertaining to the mood of peace in the literature, but it
will definitely super-impose itself on the mood of romantics.
(1157) Marathi is the local language, but I will use it so skillfully that it will rejuvinate the literature
and will defeat nectar by its sweetness.
(1158) These Marathi words will be comparable to the Moon in the juicy coolness and being
charmed by the resonance of the sweet words, the very Brahman of Music will become
subservient to it.
(1159) The arrangement of the words will make the heart of even the ghosts melt with pious
compassion and by the very listening to it the saints will experience deep trance in the state of
Atman.
(1160) Now I am going to make manifest such a glory of language that I will fill this universe
completely with the meaning of Geeta and I will build a temple or a field of bliss for all the
