world to enjoy.
(1161) By listening to this talk, let the power of discrimination be satisfied and the ears and the
minds may have the fulfilment of their life, and whoever desires may attain the realisation of the
Absolute Brahman.
(1162) The supreme principle which is Atman may be visible to the eyes of all, let there be opened a
new era of happiness and let the whole universe experience the happy days of knowledge of the
Brahman.
(1163) And I will give such a beautiful talk that all there good things will surely happen because I
am blessed by my Guru, the great God Shri Nivrittinatha.
(1164) Thus I will simplify every word by disentangling the complex terms, which are replete with
similes and other figures of speech, so that the meaning of the book will be totally clear.
(1165) Up to this stage, my great glorious Guru has made me perfect with the richness of language.
(1166) Sirs, because, by the grace of my Guru, everything which I say is agreeable to you, and I have
dared to speak on the meaning of Geeta before such listeners as you.
(1167) Further, since I have come near the feet of the saints like you, there is nothing which becomes
an impediment in my way.
(1168) Sir, will a mute child be ever born of the mother Saraswati and is it possible that the goddess
Laxmi will have shortage of any of the good signs indicating prosperity?
(1169) In the same way, what scope has ignorance in the presence of saints like you? Therefore I say
that I will pour showers of the nine literary moods.
(1170) In short, I request that I may be given enough scope, so that I can speak on this book in a very
clear style!" So says Dnyandeva.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते|
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे ेत ेत योगो नाम तयोदशोऽ यायः
Thus in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of the knowledge of Brahman, in the
scripture of Yoga, and in the dialogue between the Lord Shrikrishna and Arjuna, the thirteenth chapter
by name "The field and its knower" comes to an end. (13)
■■
Chapter - 14
