(11) Compared to your achievements, this trinity of the worlds seems to be of a lesser measure! O
Arjuna, thus blotless is your bravery!
(12) And you who are having such a pure unparalleled bravery, are now putting your head down and
crying pitiably by leaving the natural quality of valour.
(13) O Arjuna, you should ask yourself, why you should degrade yourself like this by misplaced pity.
Should the Sun be covered by darkness? Tell me.
(14) Does wind ever become afraid of clouds? Or does nectar die or does fuel eat up fire?
(15) Does water get dissolved in salt? Does the poison ‘Kala Koot’ die by infection? Tell me, does
a frog swallow a serpent of great hood?
(16) It is never considered possible that a fox may fight with a lion; but you have made this a true
fact here today.
(17) Therefore, even now you must prevent your mind from being caught up by this depression; and
taking heart again you should become strong-minded and aware of yourself, immediately.
(18) Throw away this stupidity! Stand up and pick up your bow and arrow. What is the use of this
misplaced compassion in this war?
(19) Dear Arjuna, you are a wise person. Why don’t you think a bit? Please tell me whether such
compassion is right at the time of war.
(20) This is going to destroy whatever good name you have earned and eventually it will also
deprive you of the happiness in heaven - so said Jaganniwasa (Lord Shrikrishna) to Arjuna.
लै यं मा म गमः पाथ नैत व युपप ते|
ुदं दयदौब यं य वोि परंतप
Yield not to this lack of masculinity, O Arjuna. It does not behove you. Throw off this damned
softness of heart and O, the giver of trouble to enemies, stand up. (3)
(21) Therefore, do not be sorry; hold yourself together, O the son of Pandu, totally discard this
sorrow.
(22) This is not proper for you. This will destroy whatever good you have achieved up to now. My
dear, even now think of your real welfare.
(23) Such softness and pity will not be helpful at this critical time of war. Have these people
become your relatives just now?
