(62) Now by the flow of love of Lord Shrikrishna, Arjuna became so happy that the sweetness of
that advice was beyond the heavens!
(63) Then the Lord said, "O the Beloved of Intuition, my oratory has become fulfilled because you
are a listener equal in caliber to my talk.
(64) Now how these hunters in the form of the three qualities catch me who am alone, in the snare of
the body?
(65) And how, in association with the field, I create all these world? I am going to tell you. Please
listen.
(66) The reason, why Prakriti is called the field is that she grows the crop of various beings from the
seed, which is her association with me."
मम योिनमह ति मन् गभ दधा यहम्|
संभवः सवभूतानां ततो भवित भारत
The Brahman, which is the "Mahat" is the place, where creation takes place, and I place the
foetus in it, and O Bharata, from it all the beings are born. (3)
(67) The reason why this Prakriti is called 'Mahat Brahman' is that it is the resting place of all the
principles including 'Mahat' etc.
(68) Dear Arjuna, she is called by this name because she gives strength to various modifications.
(69) The persons who propound the philosophy of 'Unmanifest' as the root of all, call her as the
'unmanifest' and she is the Prakriti according to the philosophy of Saankhyas.
(70) She is called Maya by the followers of Vedanta philosophy. But O Arjuna, the beloved of
intuition, how many such names should be told? This Prakriti is nothing but ignorance.
(71) Dear Dhananjaya, 'To forget our own Reality' is the form or the nature of this ignorance.
(72) There is also another way of understanding its nature. This ignorance does not remain, when
thought is explicit, just as when the lamp is lit, darkness does not remain.
(73) When milk is disturbed by a spoon, the layer of the cream dissolves, but if the milk is kept as it
is for some time, that layer is again formed.
(74) Or it is like the state of deep sleep, where there is no waking consciousness nor dream state nor
the trance in the state of Atman.
(75) This ignorance is like the sky which remains still, when the wind stops blowing.
