(76) When there is something at a distance in a hazy light, we cannot decide whether that is a pillar
or a man; but we feel that, "Something appears to be there."
(77) Similarly in this ignorance there is a condition, when there is no proper understanding of the
Atman nor is there any definite perception of any particular thing.
(78) Just like there is only dusk and there is neither night nor day in the evening, so this ignorance
also is neither against nor opposite to the Atman or conducive to its knowledge.
(79) So the condition of doubtful perception, which is neither true knowledge nor something
opposite of the knowledge is called 'Ignorance', and this very state of the Atman, which is
wrapped in this ignorance is called the 'knower of the field'.
(80) Please know that to increase ignorance and to forget the reality or Atman is the special
characteristic of the 'Knower of the field'.
(81) My dear, this is what is called the combination of field and the knower of the field. This is the
natural quality of the sense of separate Atman.
(82) Now really according to this ignorance, Atman is thinking that he is seeing various forms and
things though in reality, he is looking at himself everywhere.
(83) For example a mad man may say, "Get out! I am the king," or a person who was unconscious
and has regained his consciousness says, "I have just returned from heaven."
(84) Similarly, when the vision is blurred by illusion, everything which is perceived is called the
'creation', and this creation is of course born from me only, which is the base of everything.
(85) Just as only one man feels that in his dream, he is many people, so the Atman sees many things,
when he forgets his real nature.
(86) Now I will explain this truth, this doctrine, in such a way that there will be no doubt; so, please
experience this.
(87) This is my wife, who is eternally young and having indescribable qualities, but she is called
Avidya (ignorance).
(88) Her characteristic existence is that she is not. Her vastness is unlimited. She is very near to
those who are asleep, but very far from those who are awake.
(89) When I myself go to sleep, she remains awake, and she bears child only by her conjugation with
the Atman himself.
(90) Then this root matter or Prakriti develops in her womb, the child with the eight types of various
