modifications, thus-
(91) With the mating of the Prakriti and Purusha, first of all the element which is called 'intellect' is
born. Then the mind which is rich with this element of intellect is also born.
(92) When the sense of possession develops in the mind, the "Ego" is formed and from that ego the
great five elements are manifest.
(93) And naturally these elements are adherent to the senses and their objects; and, therefore, these
latter are also born together with them.
(94) When the distortions in the one principle increase in this manner, the trinity of the 'qualities'
starts its activities in the form of a child in the womb of desires.
(95) Just as the tiny little seed starts its time-bound plan of growth of the tree as soon as it comes
into contact with water;
(96) Similarly as soon as the ignorance which is the root Maya comes into contact with me and
herself begins to produce sporuts of the whole world having names and shapes.
(97) My dear, gentle Arjuna, please listen how the foetus begins to take various forms, such as
(98) Those born out of eggs, out of sweat, out of earth and out of placenta.
(99) The element of sky and the element of wind (Wayu) come together to create minerals.
(100) When the element of water together with the element of fire becomes disturbed by internal
development of Tamas and Rajas, the category of beings is born out of the sweat.
(101) When the elements of water and earth come together in a big way and Tamas is predominant in
them, there comes into being a lower category of inanimate things which should be known as born
out of earth.
(102) When the five organs of activity and five sense -organs help each other and become endowed
with mind and intellect, they bring forth the category of living-beings, which are born through
placenta.
(103) Now please conceive that these four divisions of creation are the straight hands and feet and
the basic Prakriti consisting of eight elements is the head.
(104) Of his body, the 'outward attitude' is the bulging belly and the withdrawing introvert attitude is
the straight back. The eight categories of gods make the upper portion of the stomach.
(105) Heaven is his developed throat, while this mundane world is his waist. The nether worlds are
