(118) My dear, are there not different limbs in the body? Similarly this universe which appears to be
variegated is really one.
(119) Dear, just as from one single seed, various branches, low and high, are grown.
(120) Or just as by the peculiar relationship, a pot can be said as the son of Earth and the piece of
cloth can be said to be the son of thread and the grand-son of cotton.
(121) Or just as there is the peculiar relationship by which the sea begets the offsprings as waves, so
is the relationship between both of us and the whole world.
(122) So just as the fire and the flame are both the fire only, so this universe is myself and to
conceive this world as separate from me is ignorance.
(123) If it is presumed that my real nature becomes defunct when this world is formed, then by which
support is this world going on? For example, does a ruby become invisible or disappears by its
lustre?
(124) Or does the gold lose its goldness by formation of an ornament? Or does the full blossoming of
a lotus causes the lotus to disappear?
(125) Dear Arjuna, you should yourself tell me! Is a man invisible because of his various parts of the
body or is he the parts himself?
(126) Just see: if the stalk of the grain of jawar grows very fast, does its breed becomes thwarted or
becomes more proliferated?
(127) So it is not that I am to be seen by setting aside this world. My Reality is not like that. This
whole universe is myself.
(128) You should, O the brave warrior, hold this definite knowledge nearest to your heart.
(129) You should also keep it in mind that I present myself to the world in various bodies in various
shapes and natures by utilizing the three qualities of Sattwa etc., which are created by me only.
(130) O Kapidhwaja, it is as illusory as our own death which we experience in our dream.
(131) A person suffering from jaundice has his eyes turned yellow and than he sees everything
yellowish.
(132) Or when the Sun rises, the cloud becomes visible, and by the clould itself the Sun is not
visible, but this is also visible because of the same sunlight.
