(133) Or we may sometimes be afraid of our own shadow, but are we different from the shadow?
(134) Now there is a kind of bondage which affects the 'me' by myself becoming subjected to these
differences. Please listen to that also.
(135) The question whether "Am I free or am I in bondage?" arises because there is ignorance about
the Reality of Atman.
(136) Therefore, O godly Arjuna, please listen. How and by what quality, I appear to be in bondage?
(137) Please listen to how many qualities there are; what are their specialities, their signs, their
names and from where they come into being.
स वं रज तम इित गुणाः पक
ृ ितसंभवाः|
िनव नि त महाबाहो देहे देिहनम ययम्
O the man with great arms, there are there qualities in this body as - Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas
born out of Prakriti which tie down the owner of the body, who is actually imperishable. (5)
(138) The three qualities have the names as Sattwa (piety), Rajas (Activity), and Tamas (Ignorance
or inertia) and they are born from the Root Prakriti, the primordial matter).
(139) Here Sattwa is the highest, Rajas is common, mediocre and Tamas is the lowest.
(140) Just as there are three stages of childhood youth and oldage in one body, these three can be
contained in one attitude of mind.
(141) It is like gold becoming more and more impure as we go on adding lower type of metal to it,
and finally coming down to 5 digits.
(142) It is like sleep which overcomes and stays on, when by laziness the keen awareness becomes
more and more listless.
(143) Similarly when the attitude of the mind is embraced by the ignorance, it becomes active by
being coloured by Sattwa and Rajas and even becomes contracted by Tamas.
(144) O Arjuna, these are called the qualities. Now we will show you how they cause bondage.
(145) As soon as Atman assumes the position of the knower of the field, he gets tied down to the
concept that he is his body, identified with his body.
(146) Then from the birth to death, he holds on tightly to the identity with his body.
(147) Then just as the fish grasps the bait the next moment the angler pulls the tackle and the bait, –
