Know that Rajas is consisting of attachment which is produced by thirst for pleasures and
association with objects, which give pleasures; and O the son of Kunti, it binds the bearer of the
body, the soul, by the involvement in Karma. (7)
(160) This quality is called Rajas because it entertains the soul and there is ever youthfulness in its
wake, of desires for sensual pleasures.
(161) This quality gains a small opening in the consciousness of the soul and turns to the path of
desire for objects and rides upon the wind of passion.
(162) The pit of sacrifice is burning with red hot embers and inflamed further by constant pouring of
ghee.
(163) Similarly the hankering for pleasurable objects goes on increasing and the man starts liking
those pleasures also, which are coupled with pain and suffering and then he feels that even if the
glory of Indra is enjoyed by him, it is not quite adequate.
(164) When this hankering is very acute, the man is pushed to undertake even harder adventures even
if the mountain Meru is in his hands.
(165) The paradox of his being involved in activities is such that in order to achieve his goal, he
may even lose his life in the bargain or value even a blade of hay as a tremendous achievement.
(166) He expands his business in such a way that in the hope of gaining tremendous profit tomorrow,
he is ready to invest in it everything which he possesses.
(167) He says to himself- "It is quite desirable to go to heaven; but what am I to enjoy there?" Thus,
thinking about future provisions of enjoyments, he goes in for performing various rituals, etc.
(168) Then the whole range of social philanthropic activities begins and he digs public wells, and
lakes or makes public utilities available, but all this is always not without any selfish desire.
(169) Just as the premonsoon winds have no rest even for a moment, this soul is also ever busy in his
constant heavy involvements.
(170) The fish in water are not so fickle, the glances of a damsel are not so changing and the
flickering of the heavenly electrical lightning is also not so momentary.
(171) His relentless activities provoked by desires are quickly changing and increasing further and
further, which is like taking a leap in the fiery sacrificial pits.
(172) Thus, though the soul is separate from the body, he gets himself tied with the chains of desires
and takes great burden of various actions on himself.
