(185) He supports his head by his hand, and turns his knees into a kind of pillow!
(186) He is so addicted to sleep that if he gets a chance to sleep he thinks that he has attained the
happiness which people get in heaven!
(187) He is always wishing that he should have such a long life as God the creator and he should be
able to pass all that time in sleep.
(188) If he is walking by a path and luckily gets a quiet place to take rest, he becomes sluggish and
goes into a deep sleep. Then he will not get up even if somebody offers him nectar.
(189) If he is, in peculiar circumstances, compelled to work, he is so angry that he is devoid of any
clear thinking.
(190) Then he does not know what should be done and when, what should be spoken and with whom
or whether a particular task is possible to be done or impossible.
(191) Just as a little butterfly may have ambition to wipe away the forest-fire by its feeble wings,
(192) Similarly he becomes restless with the desire to do very heavy job which is beyond his
capacity. In short, he can only be able to think like a stolid fool.
(193) In this way, Tamas which is a rope having the three plies of sleep, laziness and
thoughtlessness, binds the blotless and pure Atman very tightly.
(194) When a piece of wood is burning, the fire takes the shape of that wood, or the space within a
pot seems to be of the shape of that pot,
(195) Or in a lake full of water, the moon appears to have fallen, in the shape of its reflection, so, the
Atman appears to be bound by these apparent three qualities.
स वं सुखे संजयित रजः कमिण भारत|
ानमावृ य तु तमः पमादे संजय युत
रज तम ािभभूय स वं भवित भारत|
रजः स वं तम ैव तमः स वं रज तथा
Dear Bharata, the Sattwa quality comes into existence in comfort and pleasure, Rajas is evident
in the various activities and the Tamas which covers knowledge is evident in the committing of
mistakes. (9)
O Bharata, the quality of Sattwa comes into being by overpowering the qualities of Rajas and
Tamas, while Rajas defeats the quality of Sattwa and Tamas. Further the Tamas overcomes the
