recognize that Sattwa quality is predominant. (11)
O the great hero among Bharatas, when Rajas quality is more enhanced in life, there are greed,
more activities, selfish beginning of actions, restlessness and a thirst for enjoyment, more evident.
(12)
O the son of Kurus, with the growth of the quality of Tamas, there is crookedness in the mind and
senses, apathy to perform one's obligatory duties, and there are wrong actions and confusion of
intellect. (13)
If a man goes into Pralaya (dies), while the Sattwa quality is more pronounced, he attains the
blotless higher worlds, which are the inheritance of men who know the best. (14)
If a man dies, when the quality of Rajas is more active in life, he is reborn among those who are
attached to action- and the man who expires while Tamas is very much powerful in his life, is reborn
in the categories of ignorant creatures. (15)
(204) Now let us go into details - When in this body, the Sattwa is increased by attaining victory
over Rajas and Tamas the following signs are seen.
(205) Just as in the spring, the fragrance of lotus flowers does not remain confined, but spreads
everywhere, so the knowledge of the man simply overflows in his every-day behaviour.
(206) We can even say that the power of discrimination works like a sweeper in the courtyard of all
the senses, and truely the hands and feet are able to see. They become very sensitive.
(207) Just as the swan decides by its beak, what is milk and what is water,
(208) Similarly his senses themselves become able to decide what is right and wrong, and the self-
control itself becomes the servant of that man.
(209) The ears themselves avoid what should not be heard. The eyes themselves omit what should
not be looked at, and the tongue itself avoids to talk which should not be talked.
(210) Just as darkness cannot stand in front of a flame, so the undesirable actions do not present
themselves in front of the senses.
(211) His intellect freely roams about in all the sciences, just as a river in spate in rainy season.
(212) Just as at the full moon- night, the moon-light spreads all over the sky; his intelligence freely
functions in the field of knowledge.
(213) His desires become narrowed down to one noble aim, his outward projections of thought
becomes less and less, and his mind is tired of objects of senses.
