(214) Generally these signs are evident, when the quality of Sattwa is increased, and if death comes
to this man in this condition,–
(215) Then there is happiness similar to that of a householder in whose house the best food is ready
and some heavenly guests come for dinner.
(216) Similarly if there is enough money in the house and the nature of the house-holder is generous
and patient, then will not the fulfillment of this life as well as happiness in the other world be
easily achieved?
(217) O Dhananjaya, is there anybody equal to this man? And after all what other higher destination
is there for a man of Sattwa?
(218) Thus consider that the Jeevatma (soul), who leaves this hut of earning and enjoyment, while he
is accompanied by the pure Sattwa quality at its highest level –
(219) He becomes the very image of Sattwa or when he takes the next birth, it is among the men of
knowledge.
(220) O the great archer! If a king climbs a mountain with all his glory, does he become any lesser
person?
(221) O Pandava, if a lamp from one village is taken to another village, there also it remains a lamp.
(222) Similarly by that Pure Sattwa, knowledge becomes far more developed, and his intellect floats
happily on the water of discrimination.
(223) In his case, it so happens that after tackling the essence of all the elements right from Mahat, he
becomes merged, together with all his thoughts, in the Reality of Atman.
(224) That which is beyond the thirty- six principles and counted as the thirty-seventh or the twenty
fifth principle beyond the twenty-four and that which is the fourth remaining after disappearance
of the three trinities, namely the three qualities, the three bodies and the three states of Jeeva-
(225) That which is the highest Sattwa, is achieved by him and by virtue of that purity, he obtains
spiritually advanced body, which is superior to many.
(226) And further, when in the life of a man, the quality of Rajas becomes predominant by defeating
the Sattwa and Tamas;
(227) Then he creates a great ballyhoo of various activities in the town of this body. Please listen to
those signs.
(228) Just as the wind whirls everything up when there is tornado, similarly the predominance of
