Rajas pushes all the sense organs into various objects without any control.
(229) He does not consider it immoral to look at the wives of other people with sexual desire and
allows his organs to enjoy their objects, like the mouth of sheep eating leaves.
(230) His desire for sense objects increases so much that, only those things which he cannot catch
remain untouched.
(231) Whatever easy or complicated task there may be, dear Arjuna, he does not stop from jumping
into it.
(232) Not only this, he has great ambition, which is quite insane for him, to venture for building a
palace or performing a sacrifice wherein a horse is slain as the offering.
(233) He desires to plan big cities, to dig lakes, and build many projects or to develop large gardens
and forests.
(234) He starts such prodigious and ambitious plans but his desire for worldly enjoyments and
attaining heavenly pleasures does not get satiated.
(235) In his mind, there are thirsts, which are so unquenchable that the vast expanse of ocean, and the
great burning power of the fire would prove insignificant before them.
(236) There is hopeful desire gallopping in front of the mind and at the back of the mind also; and he
is covering the whole world under the feet of his ambition.
(237) In this way all these signs become evident when the Rajas is rampant in his mind and if his
body comes to an end, in this state of turbulance;
(238) His soul enters into another body with all this disturbance, but he gets rebirth as a human being
only.
(239) My dear, supposing a beggar sits in a royal place and is surrounded by all the pleasures, does
he become a king?
(240) A bullock has to eat his fodder only; it does not matter whether he is with the marriage party of
a rich person.
(241) Similarly this man takes birth in the family of such persons who have no respite throughout day
and night in their continuous business.
(242) In short, when a man dies being drowned in the pull of Rajasic activity, he takes birth among
the people who are heavily burdened with action.
