(243) Now by swallowing the Rajasic and Sattwic forces, the Tamas becomes dominant in
somebody's life.
(244) Please listen to the signs which become evident in that condition both in the mind and the
behaviour of that man.
(245) By the effect of this Tamas, the mind becomes as dark as the dark night, when there is neither
Sun nor Moon.
(246) Similarly his mind becomes depressed, inert and completely dejected. In that condition, there
is no scope for any thought.
(247) The intellect is so hard without any softness that even the stone cannot compete with it; and
good memory seems to have been banished.
(248) The thoughtless arrogance is reigning freely in his body and such a man only functions
foolishly in all his activities.
(249) Though the awareness of having done wrong things is constantly pinching his mind painfully,
he continues to indulge into his sinful and harmful activities.
(250) Further just like an owl, which can see in darkness, the mind of this man is more active, when
any evil work is to be done.
(251) If there is any action which is known to be forbidden, he becomes more interested in it and his
organs run together with his greed.
(252) This man zooms without taking liquor, chatters without delirium and becomes ensnared
without having love.
(253) His mind is not sane. He is not in his proper senses and his mind is not in any higher state, but
he is out of his mind by force of great illusion.
(254) So these are many signs which become evident when the Tamas quality is more powerful in
the life of a man.
(255) And if this man is invited by death in such conditions, he goes out of the body with the whole
bundle of Tamasic tendencies.
(256) For example, the mustard plant keeps its quality in its seed and when that seed grows
afterwards in due course, what else than mustard plant is going to come out of it?
(257) Suppose the original fire on which a lamp is lit is itself extinguished, it does not matter so long
as the fire is alive in the lamp, in its total potency.
