(36) Let this life be perished! What has happened to all of us, that we are intent upon being over-
joyed by killing these when we have learnt everything from these elders themselves?
(37) I am totally indebted to Drona who has taught me how to use bow and arrow. When all his
obligations are on my head, how can I slay him?
(38) Arjuna said, “Am I someone like Bhasmasura to be treacherous to them whose blessing I should
hanker for?”
गु नह वा िह महानुभावान्|
शेयो भो ुं भै यमपीह लोक
े
ह वाऽथकामां तु गु िनहैव|
भुंजीय भोगान् िधरपिद धान्
It is rather preferable even to beg for alms in this world, without slaying these noble-minded
Gurus, because, even after killing them, what we will enjoy will be pleasures and wealth etc. which
will be stained by their blood. (5)
(39) “O God, ocean is well-known to be calm, but its calmness is only apparent. However the mind
of Drona is so calm that he does not even know what is disturbance.
(40) This sky is vast, no doubt but even it can be measured. However, the heart of Drona is so deep
that it is unfathomable.
(41) May be perhaps nectar will be stale and may lose its taste or even the ‘Vajra’ will, by lapse of
time be broken; but even if one tries to disturb the mind of Drona, it will not be possible.
(42) When we think of loving nature, we immediately think of mother. That is right, but Drona is
love incarnate, the very image of tenderness.
(43) Compassion has begun from Drona. He is the store-house of all virtues. He is as if the limitless
ocean of all sciences" - So said Arjuna.
(44) He further said, “Such is the greatness of this teacher. Furthermore, he has great blessing for us.
Then tell me, whether I can think of killing him.
(45) Throughout my life, my mind cannot accept the very idea that such great people we should kill
in the battle, and then enjoy the pleasures of kingdom.
(46) This concept that the pleasures are greater and more desirable than these, is itself so dangerous
that I think it better to beg in order to live than think of those pleasures.
(47) Or we should leave this country or live in deep caves in the mountains but should not hold
