(269) Thus, you should understand that only the Sattwa quality is capable of defeating Rajas and
Tamas and there is no other quality than Sattwa which leads one to self-knowledge.
(270) Therefore, just as some people relinquish every possession and take up the life of Sanyasi,
which is the fourth degree of devotion, similarly some people take a life-long vow of living a life
of piety (Sattwa quality).
ऊ व ग छि त स व था म ये ित ि त राजसाः|
जघ यगुणवृि था अधो ग छि त तामसाः
Those who abide in the quality of Sattwa, go to higher levels in the heaven world as well as after
rebirth; those of a Rajasic nature maintain their status in the heaven worlds in the lower heaven and
after rebirth also; while those having Tamas in their nature, go to the nether worlds as well as among
sense-less categories of beings after rebirth. (18)
(271) Thus, those who live with predominant Sattwa quality in their nature and die in the same inner
condition, reach heaven and enjoy that life as kings.
(272) Similarly, those who live with desires and activities of Rajas, and die in the same condition,
take birth in the human kingdom only.
(273) In this life they received and experienced a mixture of pain and pleasure or some happiness
and some sorrow, and their death is also not an exception to that condition, as it does not improve
their lot.
(274) And those who live and grow while Tamas is more powerful in their nature, and leave this
body of sensual enjoyments, go to hell as if they are the licensees of that land of the dead.
(275) O son of Pandu, I have told you the cause of these three qualities which is the Brahman and
also told you their different functions.
(276) Actually, the Brahman is as pure as it is, in all conditions, and it is itself which becomes
apparently coloured by the qualities and acts according to their particular way of manifestation.
(277) When a king sees a dream, sees in it that his city is attacked by his enemies and experiences
either victory or defeat, it is he himself who projects all those situations and experiences.
(278) So, all the different characteristics of the three qualities such as the higher, the middle and the
lower are appearing as such because of the particular point of view; otherwise, the absolute
Brahman is pure as it is without this point of view of separate functions.
ना यं गुणे यः कतारं यदा द ाऽनुप यित|
गुणे य परं वेि म ावं सोऽिधग छित
