When the observer sees no agent or any doer other than the three qualities, and has realization that
"I am the supreme spirit, who am entirely beyond these qualities," he becomes merged into my own
existence. (19)
(279) But let us stop these analytical descriptions. You should not give attention to anything other
that the supreme Brahman. I will just tell you again what I have earlier told you.
(280) You must realize that these three qualities are able to show their peculiar powers only through
the physical body, and with its support.
(281) It is like fire becoming of the shape of the firewood etc., which it burns, or the juices in the
earth become outwardly of the shape of a tree when they enter the tree.
(282) Or, like the milk which assumes the nature of curds but it is milk only in another form, or like
the sweetness of the juice which takes the form of sugarcane plant.
(283) Similarly these three qualities, take the form of the body which is endowed with the mind and,
therefore, it becomes responsible for bondage.
(284) But, O the great archer! The wonderful thing in this process is that all these complex functions
of these three qualities and the body with its organs do not affect in any way the freedom of the
Jeeva itself.
(285) Those three qualities while consuming the past Karma of the Jeeva and creating new Karma
according to their peculiar way of function, do not affect adversely the status of the Jeeva which
is beyond them.
(86) We propose to tell you that it is quite easy for the Jeeva to remain free from this great whirlpool
of the three qualities; because you are interested in self-knowledge as a blue-beetal is addicted to
the honey in a lotus. In your case, knowledge is that lotus.
(287) This is similar to the crux of the problem which we told you earlier in verse 24 of chapter 3
that the spirit does not take the limits of the qualities though it functions in them.
(288) O Partha, just as a man knows that the dream was unreal, after he awakes, similarly the Jeeva
knows this after he attains the self-realization.
(289) Or just as we realize that our reflection which moves with the waves in the water is not our
own self, only when we are aware that we are sitting on the bank of the water.
(290) Or just as an actor does not get himself deceived even if he does a lot of make-up to play a
role of somebody else, similarly the Jeeva should look at these three qualities without being
involved.
