(291) The sky presents us with the three different seasons, but it does not allow its purity being
unreal or subjected to variations.
(292) Similarly that which lives in these qualities is actually self-evident alone and free I-ness, and
is always seated high on the reality of knowing that- I AM BRAHMAN.
(293) Looking down from his high citadel, Atman says - ‘‘I am only a witness. I do not do anything.
These qualities are spreading all this complex expanses of actions.’’
(294) The Karma spreads its network due to all these qualities of Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas, and all
the rites and rituals are only the variations arising out of these qualities.
(295) And what is my status in these qualities? It is just like the spring season which indirectly
becomes the cause of all the glory of nature.
(296) Or some happenings like fading of starlight and their becoming invisible, or the burning of the
stone sensitive to sunlight, the blossoming of lotus flowers or dissolution of darkness -
(297) Are not directly caused by the Sun himself and they are not done by him. Similarly though I
may be indirect cause as the root base for all the actions, I am not the doer, and these do not affect
me.
(298) No doubt the qualities become manifest because I show them, it is I who strengthen their
power, but I am that eternal and untouched principle, which remains after the destruction of these
facets or qualities.
(299) O Dhananjaya, he who has thus raised himself above these things called qualities is the really
free man, beyond this trinity and reaches a very high state.
गुणानेतानती य तीन् देही देहसमु वान्|
ज ममृ युुजरादुःखैिवमु ोऽमृतम ुते
The man who goes beyond these three qualities which are born in the body, becomes free from
birth, death, oldage and sorrow, and enjoys the deathless state. (20)
(300) He rightly understands that principle which is beyond the qualities because knowledge itself
has made an impression upon his mind.
(301) Or, O the son of Pandu, he attains unity with my state just as a river merges into the sea.
(302) Just as a parrot escapes from the rung and goes to sit on the branch of the tree in its own
freedom, this man also becomes one with me which is his root existence.
