(303) Because, O the Enlightened Arjuna, he who was snoring deeply in his sleep of ignorance has
now become awake by self-realization.
(304) O the great warrior Arjuna, he had a mirror of duality in his hand but it fell down and broke,
so, he cannot now see the illusory reflection.
(305) O The brave one! Since the wind of the pride and identification of mind with the body has
stopped, there is unity of the soul and the spirit (or Jeeva and Shiwa) like the waves subsiding in
the sea.
(306) So, Jeevatma dissolves himself into my existence just like the thin clouds disappearing in the
sky when the rainy season is over.
(307) So, being myself for all purposes, he does not get caught in the qualities produced in that body
though he lives in the body.
(308) Just as the light of a lamp is not prevented or destroyed by the transparent glass, or just as the
fire in the ocean is not extinguished by the ocean,
(309) Similarly his self- knowledge does not get sullied by the development or disappearance of any
of these qualities. His being in the body is like the reflection of Moon which appears to be in
water.
(310) The three forces of the three qualities are making the body dance according to their movement
but this man does not even throw a glance at them, and does not deviate from his conviction that
he is Brahman.
(311) He stays so fixed in his Atman that he is not at all aware what is going on in the body.
(312) This happens like the skin thrown by a serpent who goes afterwards into a hole, and there is
nobody to take care for that skin.
(313) Or he is like this - When the fragrance of a lotus goes away into the environment it does not
come back to that flower.
(314) Similarly when there is complete unity with the Brahman, there is no cognizance of what is the
body and what are its characteristics, etc.
(315) So, all the six stages of birth, growth, youth, decadence, oldage and death, which are relevant
to the body only, have no relationship with him in the Atman.
(316) It is similar to the undisturbed state of space which is in a pot, remains as it is even if the pot
is broken.
