The Lord said- "O Pandava, even if light of knowledge shines, even if mind runs out towards
objects through the organs of the body, even though there is enticement to anything- he does not hate
these movements nor does he desire them if they become absent from his life. (22)
(327) Rajas becomes powerful. Body has sprouts of action growing from it and the Jeeva is simply
surrounded by outgoing attentions.
(328) In that situation, this man has no such concept that he is alone the actor, the doer; nor does he
lament if that action is not successful.
(329) When all the senses in his body become sharp and sensitive with quick grasp of any subject he
is not elated by his learning and cleverness.
(330) And if there is Tamas increased in his body, he is not confused and is not sorry that he has no
knowledge about some things.
(331) When there is confusion, he is not eager to change that condition into that of knowledge; when
there is knowledge he does not boast about his good actions and does not feel sorry if any work is
not finished.
(332) Just as the Sun knows no difference in the morning, or noon, or evening, this man also does not
differentiate between any conditions.
(333) Is there any necessity of the light of the knowledge of other person, for this man to be learned?
Is rain necessary for the sea to have high tide?
(334) Will he be involved in the compulsive performance of rituals even if he may be doing what is
fit for the occasion? Arjuna, do tell me! Does the mountain Himalaya shiver by snow-fall?
(335) Or will such a man abhor knowledge even if there is a confusing situation? Please tell me, can
summer, however hot may it be, burn the fire itself? (Thus the man is not affected by any
conditions).
उदासीनवदासीनो गुणैय न िवचा यते|
गुणा वत त इ येव योऽवित ित ने गते
He is relaxed as if uninterested in anything, and he is not disturbed by the qualities. He considers-
"O! Only these qualities are themselves active!" Thus he remains in his peace, and is not ruffled a bit.
(23)
(336) Looked from other point of view, he considers that the function of the three qualities is not
separate from himself. They are himself only. Therefore, he does not try to cut them away.
