(337) As he is in this comprehensive attitude, he lives in the body like a traveller staying in a Sarai
for some time.
(338) Just as the battle ground has nothing to do with the victory or defeat of any army, this man also
does not take part in any action which the quality does or does not do.
(339) Just as the vital breath is not attached to any particular part of body or a guest called for dinner
at a stranger's place is not interested in other things in the house and just as a pillar on a city
square is oblivious to whatever is going on around it- so, this man is not concerned about the
qualities.
(340) And O Pandava, just as the mountain Meru is not affected by the waters of mirage, so this man
of wisdom is not disturbed by any coming and going of particular qualities.
(341) What more can be said, my dear? Just as the sky cannot be blown away by wind or the Sun
cannot strangulate the darkness personally.
(342) Or just as a dream cannot deceive a man who is awake, so, the qualities cannot bind the really
wise man.
(343) Though he is not caught by the qualities when he looks at the various activities of the qualities
for a fun to be enjoyed aloofly, just as a spectator sees a puppet dance only for pass-time.
(344) The Sattwa quality indulges in any good and pious activities, Rajas takes interest in selfish
and sensual subjects while the Tamas is freely roaming about in a condition of hallucination,
illusion or ignorance, etc.
(345) But please remember that all these activities of the qualities go on only by the order and
power of the God. For example, the activities of people go on because they say that sun has
arisen, but then he only looks on like a disinterested person.
(346) Though at the rising of the moon, there is high tide, the Somakant jewel melts and night lilies
bloom, the moon is aloof from them.
(347) The wind may blow fast or become slow, the sky remains still and undisturbed. Similarly this
man is not disturbed by the qualities.
(348) O Arjuna, by these signs one should recognize the man who is beyond the qualities. Now listen
to his actions.
समदुःखसुखः व थः समलो ा मकांचनः|
तु यिपयािपयो धीर तु यिन दा मसं तुितः
