Such a man is at peace with himself; he considers the pain and pleasure as equal and he gives the
same value to a lump of clay, or iron or gold. Further, he behaves with equal justice with one who is
liked or one who is not liked; he is courageous and he is equally disinterested in blame or praise
directed at him. (24)
(349) O the crowned one, just as there is only the thread in the cloth, in any way you may look at it,
similarly this man looks at all the world as if it is Myself.
(350) So, just as the God gives equally generously to his devotees and to those who hate Him, this
man also gives equal weight to pain or pleasure which he may get.
(351) Actually when the soul lives in the body as fish lives in water, it is but normal that he will get
pain or pleasure.
(352) But this man has removed himself high up from this duality and he is always steady in the state
of Atman. It is like a seed which becomes quite full in the crop when the crop is ripe.
(353) Or it is like the ending of all the turbulence of the river Ganges when at last it reaches the sea
and merges into it.
(354) So, when this man dwells in the Atman only, both the pain or pleasure remain with the body
without affecting him.
(355) Just as night or morning is the same for the pillar, so, for a man who lives blissfully in the
Atman, the sensations of pain and pleasure in the physical body, are not disturbing.
(356) The dualities in the body are having no difference for a man living in his Reality, just as for a
man who is asleep, it makes no difference if a serpent goes by or a heavenly damsel sleeps
beside him.
(357) Thus, for him there is no difference between dung and gold and flint-stone and diamond.
(358) He has no disturbance in his peaceful mind even if the heavens may come to his home or a
tiger may attack.
(359) His equanimity is not disturbed just as the thing crushed does not get up, or the seed burnt does
not grow.
(360) Just as the ash is neither burnt nor again extinguished, this man is not concerned whether he is
praised as Brahma the creator, or scorned at as a loafer.
(361) Thus in the case of this man, criticism or flattery have no place just as with the Sun, there is
neither darkness nor a wick for lighting a lamp.
