(373) Thus, O Partha, please listen, I am in this universe like the gem and its lustre, which are
unified together.
(374) Or just like liquidity is water, space is the sky and sweetness is sugar and not any other
different thing.
(375) Or fire is the flame, petals and lotus are one and tree and branches, fruits etc. are the same.
(376) My dear, what is Himalayas but the snow heaped at one place, or curds is milk only in
changed form.
(377) Similarly, in the name of the universe it is I only who exists. There is no necessity to peal off
the Moon in order to know it.
(378) Or ghee which is not heated and made liquid is still ghee only, or a bangle though not melted is
the gold only.
(379) Even if a piece of cloth is not torn, it is but the thread only, and the earthen pot is earth only
though it is not liquefied and turned into clay.
(380) Therefore, it is not that the universe itself should be gone and then I should be reached. I am
everything in one only.
(381) When a devotee knows me like this, then only his devotion should be known to be undivided,
and if at all he sees any separateness here, that amounts to deviation, or divided attention.
(382) Therefore, by giving up any sense of separateness, I should be seen as one with himself, by a
mind which knows no division.
(383) O Partha, if a golden part of ornament is attached to the golden ornament, there is no difference
in the whole, similarly one should not consider oneself different from the world.
(384) What comes out of light, is itself light and is one with the light and is called a ray. Such is the
nature of the unity of us with the universe.
(385) Now, just as earth has dust particles and Himalaya has snow particles, devotee should know
that the ego, the I- is in me only.
(386) Though a wave may be very small but it is not separate from the sea. Similarly the devotee
should know that he is one with God, not separate at all.
(387) We say that when the vision is very happy in this kind of unity it is the real devotion.
(388) And by the name 'vision', I mean the knowledge and also the essence of the Yoga.
