(389) O, the brave hero! This unbroken attention in that unity is just like continuous rain waters
pouring into the sea.
(390) Just as the sky and the mouth of a well are not joined together by any joint of space, and the
space is the same in both the places, this devotee is one with the Supreme Being, without any
artificial joint.
(391) The light is continuously straight between the reflection and the thing itself, the concept of "I"
in the case of this devotee is "I AM THAT"- meaning his unity with Brahman.
(392) When once that concept of I becomes one with THAT, he is merged together with his
awareness of I, into the supreme principle.
(393) O Pandava, when once a cake of salt is dissolved in the sea-water, the quality of dissolving
also does not remain as such.
(394) The fire burns the hay and is itself also extinguished. Similarly this knowing of unity destroys
the duality, the separateness, and itself becomes destroyed.
(395) Then the concepts ‘‘that I, the God is on the other shore or beyond, and the devotee is on this
shore’’ - are gone and only the beginningless eternal unity remains.
(396) O the crowned one, when once this unity is established, the idea that the devotee has to attain
victory over these Sattwa etc. qualities is also gone.
(397) O the man with beautiful teeth! (Actually the man with esthetic interest), this is the state of
Brahman. He who worships me in this manner, reaches this Brahman.
(398) We again say here that to my devotee who worships me like this, the state of Brahman serves
as a faithful wife.
(399) Just as the water which runs turbulently in the Ganges, has no other goal except the sea,
(400) So, O the crowned one, he who worships me with this vision of spiritual wisdom of unity,
becomes the crest-jewel in the crown of the state of Brahman.
(401) O Partha, this state of Brahman is itself called "Saayujya" liberation, or total Freedom, and
this same is called Moksha, the fourth or the highest human achievement.
(402) But do not take me to be a means or an instrument, because my devotion in this manner
becomes a staircase or a path towards merger into the state of Brahman.
(403) Perhaps by misunderstanding, your mind will have such a misconception. Therefore, I again
say that Brahman is not separate from me.
