(79) That non-dual thing in itself is the top of this tree of the worldly life. I shall tell you now how
this root is having sprouts.
(80) This name Maya is a false one given to the illusion, just like saying that a barren woman has a
child.
(81) She is neither existing nor non-existing, she cannot stand the sharp probe of thought and still she
is called 'Beginingless'.
(82) She is the box of various differences and she is, like having many clouds in it, containing many
worlds and she is the original fold of the absolute Brahman after it becomes embodied.
(83) She is the tiny seed of the tree of the worldly life, she is the base of family life and mixture of
five elements and she is the frozen flame of wrong type of knowledge.
(84) She is within the abstract non- qualified Brahman in the state of non- existence and whatever
activities are seen to have been done by her are actually the effect of the light of that absolute
Brahman.
(85) For example, when we go to sleep, we make ourselves devoid of all knowledge or a lamp
develops a little carbon on the wick.
(86) Also a man experiences a dream, and in it he sees a young lady by his side awake and so
embraces her in the dream and becomes sexually disturbed even though actually there is no one to
embrace.
(87) Similarly, O Dhananjaya, this Maya comes into existence within the abstract Brahman and there
is 'forgetting' of the Reality- this is the first root of the tree of worldly life.
(88) This state of 'forgetting' which takes place in the original state of Brahman is the first and
Primary root of this tree. This is called in Vedanta as Beeja- Bhava (The State of "Seed")
(89) The state of deep sleep, which is total ignorance is called "Beejankura-Bhava (the state of first
sprout of the seed), and the two other states namely the dream state and the walking state are
called the "Phala-Bhava" (The state of fruition) of the state of deep sleep.
(90) These are the terms used in Vedanta to explain the various states, but let it be. Our present
intention is only to show that 'ignorance' is the root of this tree.
(91) The top - most part of this is the pure Atman, and the roots which are said to be both in the
lower level as well as on the higher level are grown in the garden bed of Maya.
(92) Further, innumerable bodies are born at the lower level and on all the four sides, there are
offshoots which spread tremendously.
