(93) Thus this root of this tree of worldly life gets its strength from the non-dual Brahman at the top
and it projects bunches and bunches of offshoots at the lower level.
(94) The first is the most tender leaf of the element 'Mahat', which is the 'consciousness' in each
'being'.
(95) From it, at its lower end, another stem comes out which is 'Ego' and it has three leaves as
Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas.
(96) From this offshoot of Ego, the branch of intellect is developed and it keeps the branch of mind
always fresh by various different moods.
(97) From the original root, which is at the top, the offshoots of the branches of the four parts of
consciousness grow and they are heavily saturated with the juice of Vikalpa (doubts), on this tree
of worldly life.
(98) Then there are straight greater branches of the five elements namely, the sky, the Wayu (air),
light, water, and earth.
(99) On these straight branches only there are the various leaves, which are curved inside and they
consist of the five sense organs such as ears, eyes, etc. and their objects. These leaves are
strangely fascinating and very delicate.
(100) Then the sprout of sound which is the object of the ear, grows very fast and the power of
listening increases very much and there are visible the various stems growing one after another,
which are innumerable desires.
(101) The creeper which is the body and the new foliage which is the skin, produce many sprouts of
the sense of touch and quite a new powerful network of passions forms itself.
(102) Then the tender leaves of shapes grows and when the stem of the power of eyes to see objects
increases, there is an overflow of confusion and delusion.
(103) And when the desire for taste creates another offshoot of 'juices', then there is the tongue
having great desire for fulfillment of the instinct of tasting of various things.
(104) Then there is another very powerful protrusion of desire for smelling, to fulfill which the nose
becomes very active, and addicted to various smells.
(105) Thus the elements of Mahat, the ego, the mind, the intellect, and the five elements like earth
etc. enhance the expanse of this tree of the worldly life.
(106) Or rather, we can say that these eight factors produce more and more branches, but when
silver appears to be on the inner surface of a shell, it is limited by the shape of that shell only.
