has, as already told, many downward branches.
(145) Further even to the downward branches, there are more roots and below those roots are
creepers having new tender leaves.
(146) This which we have already told you in the beginning, we shall now explain in details.
(147) Now the eight - faceted Maya consisting of the elements like "Mahat" etc. comes into existence
from the firm root of ignorance and then there grow great forests of Vedas, which embody all
knowledge.
(148) But first there are four equally strong broad branches of the 'Born of sweat', 'Born of placenta';
'Born of earth' and 'Born of eggs'.
(149) From each of these four branches, there are further strong offshoots of eighty-four lakhs of
species and there are on the branch of living Beings further innumerable divergent stems of
Beings.
(150) Some branches are straight, but there are many horizontal and crooked branches growing out
of them which are the chains of innumerable species of Beings.
(151) By the distortions in the life force of these branches, various types moulded as male, female,
and neutrals come into being and spread everywhere.
(152) Then due to the ignorance, many forms and shapes come into existence like the innumerable
shapes of clouds gathering in the sky in rainy season.
(153) Afterwards, when these branches become heavy by their own weight and get entangled among
themselves, the three qualities of Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas become agitated and they create great
wind of turbulences.
(154) Then this tree having its root at the highest level, becomes trisected by the forces of these
qualities.
(155) When the waves of the wind of Rajas begin very powerfully, the branch of human race
becomes over-grown.
(156) It neither climbs up nor turns downward, but becomes more and more solid within itself, and
there are transverse branches of the four classes of human beings.
(157) Then there are delicate and beautiful twigs of the dictum of Vedas, which have great tender
leaves of 'What is right and what is wrong action."
(158) From them the desire for money and lust for enjoyment grow tremendously and by ever new
