offshoots, there are many temporary spots or resorts or enjoyments of pleasures on these
branches.
(159) And the extrovert projections of desires become so powerful that there is no limit to all the
good or bad activities indulged into by men.
(160) In this process, the broken trunks of old and weak, 'used-up' bodies which have become
useless by over-indulgence, fall down, but at the same time new growths of new bodies come
forth.
(161) And new foliages of the objects of sense organs, such as the sound, the smell etc., grow up
every moment which are very attractive because of their naturally brilliant colours.
(162) In this way, the human kingdom is established and developed by the great gusts of the wind of
Rajas, forming great crowd of various human races.
(163) Later, when this hurricane of Rajas subsides to some extent another tornado of Tamas starts its
noisy action.
(164) Then on this very branch of human race, on its lower side, there are tender leaves of lowest
type of passions, which grow into various branches of wicked and sinful deeds.
(165) Then the dirty half burnt offshoots of sins come out straight, very forcefully, on which there are
profusely developed twigs of vices which are full of very heavy growth of leaves.
(166) We should understand that the trinity of Vedas namely Rigveda, Yajurveda, and Samaveda
which indicate the right and wrong actions is the delicate topmost group of tender leaves,
(167) After that the tender leaves of Atharvaveda which has charms used for evil purposes grow into
a creeper of desire.
(168) As this activity goes on continuously, the trunks of bad deeds begin to become very broad and
branches of re-births spread further and further on that tree.
(169) Then there is a great downward branch of human beings like Chandala etc. which is very low,
and people who commit sinful actions get themselves entangled into that net.
(170) Then more branches grow there, being the lives of animals and birds, viz. pigs, tigers,
scorpions, and serpants etc., which spread horizontally.
(171) O Pandava, these branches are always fresh-looking and well-nourished because there are in
store for them the fruits of bad deeds, in the form of hell.
(172) These sprouts, constantly indulging into vices such as violence etc. continue to grow fast in
