births after births.
(173) In this way, there come into being such things as iron, clod, stone, or grass or bushes and trees,
their fruits being similar to them.
(174) Dear Arjuna, in this way the branches from the human races down to the inanimate things grow
on and on.
(175) Therefore, we should consider these branches or the main branch of human beings to be the
roots of downward growth, because this tree of worldly life spreads at the lower level from the
human kingdom.
(176) Otherwise O Partha, when we consider the primary root, which is at the top, we have to
consider these offshoots in the middle and lower portions as branches only.
(177) But for the branches of good action and bad actions belonging to the Tamas and Sattwa
quality, which are developed downward and upward,
(178) And the tender leaves of the three Vedas, which are already developed, have no other
existence, O Arjuna, except in the human world.
(179) Therefore, even though human body is a branch produced from the primary root at the topmost
level, it must be understood that this branch becomes the root cause for the development of
Karma.
(180) Similar is the case with all the trees. As the branches grow large and thick, the roots also go
deeper and spread wider, and further, as the roots become stronger, the tree expands more and
more.
(181) Similar is this human body. So long as action (Karma) takes place, there is the chain of bodies
after bodies and so long as the bodies are there, there is no break in the chain of karma.
(182) The Lord, the father of the world, said that, these human bodies are the roots of the wider
spread of the worldly life.
(183) Then, the fast blowing wind of Tamas subsides, as the tremendous tempests of pious Sattwa
quality begin.
(184) At that time, on this branch of human race, there come forth the sprouts of good desires and
good deeds in a very large quantity.
(185) With the sudden advent of the light of knowledge, many new twigs start to grow in many
branches, because of the great power of intellect.
