(186) The trunks of intellect grow straight and they have subsidiary branches of inspiration and
thereby the light of the intellect shines forth with the help of discriminative thought.
(187) When from the foliage of devotion, which has the juice of intellect enriching it, there come
forth beautiful and straight offshoots of benevolent thought;
(188) On these numerous sprouts of good thought and good action, there is recitation of Vedas,
resounding very melodiously.
(189) Then there are leaves produced from innumerable leaves, which consist of good moral
conduct, social behaviour, right ritualistic performance according to Vedas, and such
performances as various Yadnyas (sacrifices).
(190) From them further twigs of penances grow, having self-control in action and thought as fruits
dangling from them, which in turn give birth to the delicate but very lengthy branches of
desirelessness.
(191) On the sharp tip of courage, new tender offshoot of various vows are born, and they reach very
quickly to a very high level.
(192) There is thick foliage of Vedas in it, and when the wind of Sattwa quality blows very fast, this
foliage makes a rustling sound of 'good knowledge.'
(193) Then a straight branch of religion grows and there is horizontal branch attached to it which is
consisting of the fruits of heavenly pleasures.
(194) Then there is another reddish branch of disinterestedness to which there is constantly growing
tender foliage of liberation.
(195) Similarly there are further crosswise branches of the various heavenly bodies like the sun and
the moon, planets, residents in the astral world, sages, angels of wisdom, etc.
(196) There are, higher than these, other branches full of fruits, which are of the heaven world of
Indra and others.
(197) Still higher are the branches which are created by various sages like Marichi, Kashyapa, etc.
by the creative power of their penances.
(198) Thus these higher branches are more and more escalating, which are very small at the
beginning but grow large after they bear the fruits at the top.
(199) Further, O the crowned Arjun, there are still higher offshoots of these and other subsidiary
branches, which are the abodes of God the creator and Lord Shiva, etc.
