(200) The wonder of these higher branches in the heaven world is that by the weight of their fruits
these become heavier and bending down, come to their primary place of birth, (which is the
human world).
(201) In the case of ordinary trees also they bend down when the weight of the fruits becomes
heavier and the branches touch the roots.
(202) Similarly, O Pandava, this tree of worldly life comes down to its original ground, when it has
tremendous growth due to knowledge.
(203) Thus Jeeva has no further progress higher than the Brahma's world or the world of the Lord
Shiva, and when they reach there, there is only the Absolute Brahman, beyond.
(204) But, even these gods like Brahma, etc. cannot be equal to this tree of roots at the top, by their
power.
(205) The branches of Sanat kumar and the like are still higher, which do not bear fruit or bend
down but reach and merge into the Brahman.
(206) Thus the foliage of this tree which starts from the human kingdom, goes up to the level of
Brahma by its large branches.
(207) The human world is called the lower roots because all the three higher branches of life start
from the human kingdom.
(208) Thus we have now told you the wonderful allegory of this tree of the worldly life or Prakriti
which has its roots at the top;
(209) And we have also explained to you the roots which are at the lower level and from which,
animals, trees, minerals, etc. are born. Now please listen to how this tree of the worldly life can
be uprooted.
न पम येह तथोपल यते ना तो न चािदन च संपित ा|
अ थमेनं सुिव ढमूलमस गश तेण ढेन िछ वा
On careful observation this tree of worldly life does not prove to be of that nature as it seems
apparently to be, because it has no beginning, no end nor even any stability. Therefore, felling with a
formidable axe of unattachment, this Ashwatha tree-
(210) O Crowned one! Perhaps in your mind there may be a question as to what instrument is there
that can be useful to uproot this great tree!
(211) This tree has branches high enough to be in the region of Brahma and the root in the highest
