state of abstract Brahman.
(212) This tree has reached to depths of the mineral, elemental kingdom and there is yet another set
of roots at the level of human Life which are separate than those.
(213) You should not at all harbour in your mind the weak - willed thought of asking as to who can
destroy this great menacing tree!
(214) There is no necessity of taking too much trouble to topple down this tree! Is it really necessary
to send the imaginary ‘scare’ to other country in order to give assurance to a child?
(215) Is it actually necessary to destroy the shapes of forts seen by us in the clouds? Or to break the
horns of a rabbit or to actually pluck the proverbial flower of the sky?
(216) Similarly, O the brave one, this tree of worldly life is not Real! Then what fear is there in the
job of uprooting it?
(217) You should understand that the description of the roots and branches of this tree, which we
have done, is like saying that the house is full with the crowd of little children of barren, childless
woman.
(218) What relevance has the things in a dream to the waking state? So, you should realize that the
story of this so-called tree of the worldly life is only a myth.
(219) Otherwise if this tree is really there as we have described, and if its root is really very firm;
(220) Then who is the man worth his name who can be able to uproot it? Can the sky be blown away
by our blowing air through our mouth?
(221) Therefore, O Dhananjaya! It is as false as serving Ghee of the female tortoise's milk to a king
when he is taking his meals.
(222) No doubt you see illusion of water in a mirage which looks like a lake, but can you sow the
seeds of rice or grow bananas there?
(223) First of all, ignorance is itself unreal, then how far can its effect be true? Therefore, the tree of
the wordly life is totally unreal.
(224) And when it is said that there is no end or destruction of this tree is in one sense, a truth.
(225) Can the sleeping state end while waking state has not come into existence? Is dawn possible
while the might has not ended?
(226) Therefore, O Partha, so long as the discriminative intelligence has not arisen, the tree of this
