(241) Thus, just as a clever dramatist entertains spectators by his peculiar dress; this worldly life
deludes the ignorant people by its false appearance.
(242) You see, we often see that suddenly there are dark clouds in the sky, which disappear after a
short time.
(243) Though we think that a certain thing in the dream is real, can it be used in our waking state?
Similarly this momentary appearance is unreal and has no real substance.
(244) It appears as real as the reflection of a monkey in the water, but cannot be caught in hand, just
like that reflection.
(245) This illusive appearance is so quickly taking place and becomes so quickly invisible that the
fickleness of waves prove to be slower and the electric lightning cannot compete with it.
(246) Just like the wind in the pre-monsoon days comes from various directions and cannot be
recognised from which direction it is coming, this tree of worldly life has no Reality in it.
(247) In short, this has no beginning, no end, no existence, no particular form. Then what is the
problem in uprooting it?
(248) This tree has developed on the strength of ignorance, though it is not real. So this has to be cut
by the axe of self-knowledge.
(249) Otherwise, whatever other actions you will take to cut it, except by knowledge, they will
involve you further and further in this tree.
(250) If you try like that, you will be just wandering endlessly among the branches. Therefore you
must simply cut the very ignorance which is its cause, by the means of the knowledge of truth.
(251) My dear, is not the trouble taken to collect sticks to kill the serpent, which appear on the rope,
a useless errand?
(252) In an effort to prepare a boat to ferry across the stream of the mirage, a man runs to bring
wood in deep forest, but gets himself drowned in a real stream of water!
(253) Similarly O Arjuna, the man who worries about various means to destroy this worldly life,
misses the main issue of self-knowledge, and his delusion of this world gets worse.
(254) Therefore, O Arjuna, just as for healing a wound sustained in a dream the only way is to
become awake; so knowledge is the only sword to cut this root of ignorance.
(255) And as step by step, this sword is used wisely and continuously the quality of desirelessness
makes the intellect stronger and stronger.
