(256) And when this desirelessness becomes prevalent, it throws away the three facets of human
endavour, which are 'organised religion', 'earning of money,' and 'fulfilling passions' as quickly as
a dog, who has eaten a wrong food, immediately vomits it out without delay and goes away.
(257) O Pandava, this austerity should be so strong that every object in this world should be easily
abhored.
(258) Then one should take out the sheath of identification with the body, just like a coat and this
weapon of self-knowledge should be held firmly and tightly in the hand of the 'conviction that one
is Atman.'
(259) This sword should be sharpened on the grinding stone of 'discrimination' by the grip of the
self-knowledge of "I Am Brahman" and should be polished by the power of complete Realisation.
(260) When this is achieved, we should make experiment in order to see, how tight is our grip of
conviction. Then we should hold this sword properly balanced on the strength of deep thinking.
(261) Then by constant application of mind to this attitude, we ourselves become the sword, and
there remains nothing else, which is to be cut by that weapon.
(262) This sword of self-knowledge, by the decisive power of the Light of unity will not allow the
tree of worldly life to exist anywhere.
(263) Just as the wind at the beginning of the post-rainy season does not allow clouds to remain in
the sky or just as the rising Sun swallows all darkness;
(264) Or the moment a man awakes, all the games of the dream come to an end; similarly the sharp
edge of self-knowledge will act.
(265) Then just as there is no mirage in moonlight, there will not be the topmost root nor the jumble
of branches at lower level of this tree of worldly life visible anywhere.
(266) O the bravest warrior of all, you have to cut this tree of worldly life having its root at the
highest level, by the powerful sword of self-knowledge, and then-
ततः पदं त प रमािगत यं यि म गता न िनवति त भूयः|
तमेव चा ं पु षं पप े, यतः पवृि ः पसृता पुराणी
Then that supreme state viz. the Almighty God should be sought after, after realizing which people
do not come back again, and that primordial Purusha should be the one to whom they should surrender
themselves, from where this flow of the ancient creation has spread. (4)
(267) Having achieved this, the state which is beyond the indication that "This is it", and which is
