self-evident without our doing, is realized by itself.
(268) But you should not accept the false duality like ignorant people who see their reflection in a
mirror and think that they are two.
(269) O the brave one! This seeing oneself is just like the stream of water which is there hidden
underground which is not manifest because a well is not dug.
(270) Or like the reflection in water which disappears as soon as that water completely becomes
evaporated, or the space within a pot which mergers itself in the wholeness of space as soon as
the pot is broken.
(271) Or fire merges into its invisible existence when fuel is all burnt; Similarly O Dhananjaya, this
is seeing us by ourselves.
(272) This seeing oneself is like the tongue tasting itself and the eye seeing its own pupil.
(273) Or the light mixing itself into light, or the sky reclining on itself, or water being poured into a
bag made of water only.
(274) Similarly seeing oneself by oneself is as described above.
(275) Which is seeing without the act of seeing, and knowing without the act of knowing, that is
called the Primordial Purusha.
(276) Even in this state, the Vedas take the support of the "qualities" and prattle endlessly about the
name and form.
(277) But those seekers who are bored of the worldly things as well as the heavenly pleasures, start
to attain the knowledge of yoga, by taking a vow that they will not come back here after merging
in this reality.
(278) Taking a vow of austerity they run away from the base of the worldly life, and go beyond even
the cliff of the region of the God Brahma.
(279) And by discarding every attachment like "me" and "mine", they become very pure and obtain
as if a passport to go to their original nativity.
(280) From that original state, the whole expanse of the successive creation of universes becomes
manifest, just as the futile hopes of an unfortunate man.
(281) By being ignorant of which state, people think that this vast expanse of the world is real, and
the sense of 'me' and 'you', the duality, begins to assume a reality of its own.
