(294) Or, when one is awake, one is not having a feeling of elation or sorrow by gaining of a
kingdom or meeting death respectively, in a dream.
(295) Similarly, just as the serpents cannot attack the eagle, those who are not affected by the
pleasures and pains, or the merits or sins.
(296) And those who are like swans who discard the things which are Non-Atman like water; and
enjoy the milk of the juice of Atman;
(297) Like the Sun who gives rain to the earth but receives back by his rays the same water;
(298) Similarly those who bring back together into themselves the Atman which was lost into
wilderness due to delusion.
(299) Or, those whose total concentration is in the Atman only just as the flow of Ganges merges into
the sea,
(300) And those who have no touch of any desire because everywhere they experience the oneness
only, just as the sky has no other place where it can go by travelling beyond itself.
(301) And those whose mind has no place for any distortions to be harboured, just as the great fire of
the volcano does not grow any seed in it;
(302) Those whose consciousness is devoid of any craving and, therefore, is as calm as the sea
which became calm when the mountain Mandar which was churning it, was removed from it.
(303) Just as the Moon does not appear to be defective in its shape when it is full, so those people
who have no defect of any hankering in their mind,
(304) But why lengthen this description? Those who have not even a particle of desire in them just
as the dust particle cannot remain where wind is gushing speedily.
(305) So, those who have become like this by the fire of knowledge, merge into that state like gold in
gold.
(306) You will ask what is that state; so, you should understand that it is a state which has no
deterioration in any way.
(307) It is not a state which can be seen by eyes or known as an object of knowledge, or can be
pointed out as "it is such and such a thing."
न त ासयते सूय न शशा को न पावकः|
य वा न िनवत ते त ाम परमं मम
