Neither the Sun nor the Moon, nor even fire can illumine that supreme self-illumined state,
attaining which, the Seers never return to this world. That is my supreme abode. (6)
(308) A thing is seen in the light of a lamp, or it is illumined by the Moon, or it is illumined by the
Sun;
(309) But the visibility of that state is not like this; It is the state which is understood by its being
invisible; or we can say that the universe is visible because that state is hidden.
(310) As we do not see the shell as shell but to our eyes there is silvery sheen visible, or when we
do not see a rope but to our eyes a serpent appears there.
(311) Similarly, the great heavenly bodies such as the Sun and the Moon are visible because the light
of this state is hidden.
(312) That thing is the Absolute Reservoir of light, and it permeates in every being and gives light to
minds of the Sun and the Moon also.
(313) The spots of light that are the Sun and the Moon are caused by the light of this Brahman, and
therefore the light of the shining things is part of this Brahman only.
(314) And when this Brahman is brilliantly visible, all the lights of all these and the world become
invisible just as the stars becoming invisible at sunrise.
(315) It is like all the sound of dream state being shut off when we wake up; or the scene of mirage
disappearing when it is evening.
(316) Similarly that state is my supreme abode, where there is no scope for any duality and
appearances.
(317) Those who have reached that state, never come back, just like the streams of water meeting the
sea.
(318) Or it is like a doll of salt, in the shape of an elephant, which merges in the sea and cannot
come back.
(319) Or like the flames of fire which go up in the sky and do not come back, or like water on a hot
iron plate which cannot be retrieved.
(320) Similarly for those who get united with me totally through knowledge, the path of return is
closed.
(312) On this, that intelligent Arjun said, ‘O Lord! I am much obliged by your explanation; but there
is one request, to which I beg for your attention, please!
