(312) Are those who merge into you and never come back, really separate from you or united with
you?
(323) If they are really separate by their very nature, the statement that they do not come back is not
valid; because if the black bees go to the flowers (and enjoy the nectar) do they become those
flowers?
(324) They return after touching you just like arrows, which hit the target and fall down.
(325) If on the other hand, you and these souls are naturally united, then who is to be merged with
whom? How can a weapon prick itself?
(326) So, just as we cannot speak about joining or separating of the limbs of a body, from the body,
similarly the statement about joining or separation between both of you cannot be agreeable to my
intellect.
(327) And those who are permanently separate from you, will never become homogeneous with you,
and therefore the question whether they come back or not is meaningless.
(328) So my Lord, please explain to me properly, who are the devotees, who do not return after
being united with you.
(329) The Lord who is the wisest of all persons of knowledge, was very glad to listen to this
question of Arjuna, because he was convinced about the intellect of his disciple.
(330) Then the Lord Shrikrishna said, "O Arjuna, the clever man! Those who merge into me and do
not come back are separate from me, and at the same time not separate from me.
(331) If we see deeply using our observant faculty, we will realize that these devotees and myself
are one, but if we just see casually, they appear to be separate from me.
(332) For example, the waves appear dazzling separately on the water, but actually it is all water
only.
(333) Or the ornaments appear different from the gold, but if we see properly, all is gold only.
(334) Similarly, O the crowned one! If we see with the vision of intelligence, the devotees are
completely united with me, but the separateness appears due to ignorance only.
(335) And if we really meditate thoroughly, we will find that in me, who is Brahman alone how can
there be any other thing, as can be verified whether it is united with me or separate from me?
(336) Suppose the whole Sun spreads through out the sky from horizon to horizon, where will his
reflection fall? And where will his rays go?
