(337) O Dear Dhananjaya, when the water of final deluge is everywhere, is there any scope or
possibility of small streams running towards it and merging into it? Therefore how can there be
parts in me who am without any distortions and alone without a second?
(338) But it is also seen that if two streams have a confluence the water in either of the streams,
though straight earlier, becomes curved at that place. By
the medium of water, the sun is having the nature of duality through its reflection.
(339) How can we say whether the sky is squarish or roundish? But if we consider the space, which
is covered by the shape of a pot or a house, we can relatively say that the space has some shape.
(340) When a man dreams that he is a king, does he not alone rule all the world due to his sleep,
though it is he himself alone imagining it?
(341) When the gold is mixed up with a metal of lesser value, the gold loses its purity, and shows
itself to be of different quality. Similarly when my own Maya appears to be covering my real
nature,
(342) Ignorance is born and developed and asking the question with doubt, as 'who am I?'– it ends
that doubt and decides that 'I am body'.
ममैवांशो जीवलोक
े जीवभूतः सनातनः|
मनःष ानीि दयािण पक
ृ ित थािन कषित
The eternal Jeeva, who is in the world of Jeevas (causal plane) is my own reflection which pulls
the five elements together with the mind, which are inherent in the Prakriti. (7)
(343) In this way when the concept of 'I' as 'body' becomes the boundary of self-knowledge, my
nature seems to have a part (as Jeeva).
(344) By the wind, the sea dances with waves and a man with lesser intellect thinks that the sea is
only waves.
(345) Similarly, I appear in this world of the Jeevas, as one who gives quality of movement to the
inanimate and one who produces pride about the body.
(346) This great activity in this world which is perceived by the limited intellect of the Jeeva or soul
is called the world of Jeeva.
(347) I call as Jeevaloka or the worldly life, the concept which thinks that 'to be born and to die' is a
real thing.
(348) You should see me in this world as the Moon which is reflected in the water, but is beyond
