यत तो योिगन ैनं प य या म यवि थतम्|
यत तोऽ यक
ृ ता मानो नैनं प य यचेतसः
The ignorant people do not know how the Atman dwells in the body, departs from it or enjoys the
objects of senses being connected with the three qualities; but those who have the vision of
knowledge only realize it. (10)
Yogis who are striving to see it are able to realize this Atman as established in their heart. The
ignorant however, whose consciousness is not pure and who are not having the insight do not know
this Atman inspite of their best endavours. (11)
(373) When the form of the body appears to be standing and the power of movement has come in it
and therefore the body is moving, people say that Atman has entered in it.
(374) And O the husband of Subhadra! When the sense organs accompanying this body function in
various respective objects, that is called 'enjoying';
(375) And when naturally the body becomes weak and dies, people declare that the Atman has gone.
(376) But O Pandava, is it correct to say that there is air when the trees are moving; and there is no
air or wind, when the trees are not moving?
(377) Or is it correct to say that, one is existing only when one sees one's reflection in the mirror,
and one has got oneself and one was not there earlier?
(378) Or is it correct to think that our own existence has gone, when the mirror is removed and the
reflection disappears?
(379) Sound is, in fact the quality inherent in the element of sky, but it is generally said that the
clouds are thundering. Or when the clouds are running past the Moon, the Moon appears to be
moving, which is an illusion.
(380) Similarly this appearing and dying of the body is blindly attributed by the ignorant, to the
Atman, who is really without any modifications.
(381) But only those who have discrimination and see that Atman is eternally as he is and the
modifications of the body are natural for the body only,– are really quite different persons from
these.
(382) Those wise people whose eyes do not limit their vision only to the physical body, and just as
the sunrays are very powerful in summer season,
(383) Similarly those whose power of discrimination is completely developed and their intuition is
