established in the Reality, know the pure Atman himself.
(384) The whole sky with its stars is reflected in the sea, but it does not mean that it has fallen in the
sea.
(385) The sky is where it should be, and the reflection is a delusion. Similarly though the Atman
seems to be involved in the body, it is only an unreal appearance.
(386) The turbulence of water is confined to the water only and though the reflection of the Moon
seems to be moving in it, actually the light of the Moon is steady with the Moon only.
(387) The pool of water is filled and is dried up and the reflection of the Sun appears in it and
disappears, but the Sun itself is as he is in the sky. Similarly though the body may be there or may
die, I am as I am, unaffected.
(388) The pots and the houses may be made and destroyed but the space occupying all is as it is,
self-existing.
(389) Similarly the men of wisdom know perfectly that while the existence of Atman is unbroken, the
body appears to come into existence and end according to the ignorant's view only.
(390) The men of pure knowledge know well that the spirit does not increase or decrease, does not
act or cause action.
(391) Suppose a man attains knowledge and his intellect becomes so sharp as to be able to measure
the atom, and he becomes master of all sciences.
(392) Though he is so well-versed and learned, if there is no desirelessness, he will not be able to
meet me in my all-pervading nature.
(393) And O the great Archer! A man may talk endlessly about the virtue of discrimination, but he
will not understand my real nature if the lust for sensual pleasures is prevalent in his heart.
(394) Further, can the problems of life be solved by the babbling of philosophy in a dream or can
one understand the contents of a book by simply touching it?
(395) Or can the value of pearls be known by closing one's eyes and holding the pearls near the tip
of one's nose?
(396) Similarly while the ego is very powerful in the consciousness, your tongue may prattle about
the word-knowledge of scriptures, for crores of reincarna-tions, but you may not come to me.
(397) I shall explain to you the wholeness of my all-pervading nature, my being within each and
every creature.
