(408) And by bellows of Prana and Apana continuously functioning, I digest innumerable foods in
the bellies of these beings.
(409) I digest all the four types of food, viz dry, oily, boiled and roasted.
(410) Thus I am the people, their life and the main means of their survival namely the fire.
(411) When this is the state of things, what further wonderful description should I tell you about my
all-pervading nature? Really, I am everywhere. There is nothing else in the universe.
(412) If this is true, then why some beings are always happy and some are unhappy?
(413) If throughout a city the same lamp gives light everywhere, why should there be darkness in
some places?
(414) This may be perhaps your worry. This will also be removed. Please listen.
(415) No doubt I am alone permeating everywhere, but people see me only according to their
conditioned intellect.
(416) This is like various sounds produced by various musical instruments though sound; as the
quality of sky is one principle only.
(417) Or like the Sun who is only one and quite unrelated to all activities but the use of sunlight
which people have is quite different for everyone.
(418) My own nature becomes manifest separately for every person, just as water becomes
differently useful for various kinds of trees according to their species.
(419) For example, when a garland of blue jewels having two threads was seen by two men, the fool
thought it to be serpent and a cause of fear, while the wise recognized it as a the garland and was
glad.
(420) Or, the rain water which falls in the period of "Swati" (15th lunar asterism) becomes a pearl
in a shell but if drunk by serpent it produces venom only. Similarly for the wise, I am a source of
happiness and for the fools, I am a source of sorrow.
सव य चाहं िद संिनिव ो म ः मृित ानमपोहनं च
वेदै सवरहमेव वे ो वेदा तक
ृ ेदिवदेव चाहम्
And I am seated in the heart of all, being the source of memory, knowledge and the faculty of
thinking and rethinking- I am alone the object of knowing, of the Vedic scriptures, and I am the creater
of Vedanta and the knower of Vedas. (15).
