(421) There is a concept in everyone's mind, that "I AM". That concept is my own Nature.
(422) But when persons remain in the company of saints, practise yogic methods, serve the feet of
the guru with complete desirelessness;
(423) By doing these good deeds, the ignorance of these persons disappears and their self-pride is
dissolved in the Atman;
(424) And they realized my nature and became happy with that realization. What other cause is there
for their happiness?
(425) O Dhananjaya, just as we see the Sun by his light only when it arises, I am known by my own
knowledge only.
(426) On the other hand there are persons who hold fast to the pride of their being the body and
listen constantly to the praise of this mundane life, and therefore their concept of self is limited to
their body only.
(427) While running after the worldly and heavenly pleasures they get the heaviest suffering.
(428) But the dream of a man who is asleep is caused by his waking state only. Just like this, it is I
who am the primary cause of their suffering also.
(429) Just as the cloud which brings darkness is seen by the light only, which it tries to cover; it is
by my power only that people see the objects of senses through ignorance about my reality.
(430) O Dhananjaya, just as only because the man is conscious, we say whether he is awake or
asleep, so, there is consideration of knowledge or ignorance, in a Jeeva, only because of my
being the root cause.
(431) O the great archer, only because the rope is existing, there is the question whether it appears
as a rope or a serpent; similarly, for the state of ignorance or knowledge, I am the most evident
root cause.
(432) Not knowing me in my own reality, Veda tried to know me, but in that process, O Dhananjaya,
it was divided into various branches.
(433) But please know that all there various branches indicate me only, just as the sea is the final
aim for rivers running in the east or the west.
(434) And just as the fragrant breezes of the wind become merged into the sky, all the Vedas with all
the words come to rest at the great Doctrine of "I AM BRAHMAN"
(435) And also it is by my power only that all the Vedas become dumb and quiet at last.
