(436) And it is only I who knows the awareness that by knowledge of reality the whole world with
the Vedas disappears totally.
(437) Just like a man does not get attached to anything in his dream after he wakes up, but knows
himself to be alone;
(438) I know the aloneness of mine without any duality and I am also the cause of the knowing of the
self as such.
(439) O the brave one! Just as there is neither flame nor soot remaining when camphor is totally
burnt;
(440) So, when knowledge eats up all ignorance and that knowledge also becomes totally destroyed,
there is no being or non-being.
(441) How can we find a "robber" who has stolen the whole universe with his clue also? Similarly I
am that indescribable state which is pure itself.
(442) Thus when the animate and the inanimate are both filled completely by the Absolute Brahman,
then the self rests in itself which is blotless.’’
(443) –All this teaching was totally reflected in the mind of Arjuna just like the reflection of the
Moon in the ocean of milk.
(444) Or the reflection of a wall in the wall opposite to it, when that wall is well polished. Such
was the fullness of understanding in both Arjuna and the Lord of Vaikuntha (Shrikrishna).
(445) But the peculiarity of self-knowledge is that it goes on increasing with the progress of
learning. So, Arjuna, who was really the greatest among men of self-realization, said-
(446) "My Lord, you have, while discussing about the quality of all-pervasiveness, indicated
something about the blotless reality.
(447) Please tell me again for my sake, clearly about that reality. On this, the ruler of Dwarka said-
"Very good!"
(448) O Arjuna, we also like to talk about this continuously! But what can be done? We do not get
such an enquirer like you.
(449) Today my aspirations are fulfilled, because you are asking questions very freely, without any
inhibition.
(450) You have made me even more happy by asking about the blotless bliss of Reality which can
only be experienced after reaching the state of non-duality.
