(451) I have got in you the most skillful questioner and expert in the art of dialogue, which is like
being able to see in a mirror held near our face, our own eye by our own eye.
(452) My dear! This is not a type of dialogue where you are asking out of ignorance and we are then
starting to teach you.’’
(453) By saying thus, the Lord embraced Arjuna, looked at him most lovingly and then said-
(454) ‘‘Your asking and my replying is so united as one speech in two lips or one walking by two
feet.
(455) Thus, we should see this occasion in such a way that the questioner and the responder are one
person only.
(456) While talking like this, the Lord was overwhelmed with love and he sat there embracing
Arjuna for a while, but having some fear in his mind, said to himself-‘This emotion is not good.’
(457) Even if the cake of jaggery is prepared, some salt is required to be put in it to prevent its being
fermented. Similarly by emotion, the pleasure of the dialogue may be spoiled.
(458) Already as the sage Nara and the sage Narayana, there is unity between him and me, and
therefore, I must control my emotions from within only.
(459) Thinking on these lines, the Lord said quickly- "O the bravest warrior, what was the question
that you asked?"
(460) At this, Arjun who was about to be dissolved with the Lord Shrikrishna in his consciousness,
resumed his sense of objective reality about his question.
(461) He said with great affection, "Sir, sir! I asked you to tell me about your blemishless Reality.
(462) The holder of Sharnga bow, who was going to tell the same thing to Arjuna, began to describe
the Upadhi or attributes in two ways.
(463) Some will ask here as to why the Lord would describe the nature of attributes when the
Reality without any attribute was what was asked about (by Arjuna).
(464) The answer is that to take out the essence of buttermilk is the same as obtaining butter out of it;
or to burn the dirt means in other words to get pure gold.
(465) Only when the moss is removed by hand from the surface, then the water is obtainable, and
when clouds go away, then the sky is there eternally present.
(466) What delay is there to get the grain when the husk over it is thrashed away?
