(467) Similarly by thought when the covers of the attributes over the thing in itself are discarded,
what remains is the sheer Brahman, without anybody's saying it in so many words.
(468) When a lady is asked to take the name of her husband by her lady-friends, she says No, No, to
each name asked about by them, but when the name of her husband is uttered, she indicates it to be
true, not by saying so, but becoming shy!
(469) The way of describing that which in beyond description is like this, and therefore, the husband
of the Goddess Laxmi described the attributes first.
(470) The talk about anything which has attributes but cannot be separately indicated, is like
showing the tiny slip of a moon on the first night of bright fortnight, by first pointing to a branch of
a tree nearby, which gives right direction to the eyes of the beholder.
ािवमौ पु षौ लोक
े र ा र एव च|
रः सवािण भूतािन क
ू ट थोऽ र उ यते
There are two kinds of male nucleus principles or Purusha in this world - one is perishable and
the other is Akshara, or imperishable. Of these, all the beings, in their physical aspects are perishable
while the hidden soul or Jeevatman is called imperishable. (16)
(471) Then the Lord further said- "O the ambidextrous Archer, the town of this worldly life has a
very small population- only of two Purushas.
(472) Just as there are only day and the night residing in the sky, so, this is the only two-some
residing in the capital city of this worldly life.
(473) There is another third Purusha, but he cannot tolerate even the mention of the name of these
two and who eats up both these, together with this city, if he arises.
(474) But let us not talk about him now. We have to listen to the story of these two for the present.
They have come to stay in this town of the worldly life.
(475) One of these is blind, mad, and lame while the second is quite healthy in all respects. Since
they are living in one town, they have become friends.
(476) One of these is called 'perishable', while the second is called 'imperishable'. This world is
occupied completely by these two.
(477) Now my dear, I shall explain who is the 'perishable' and what is the sign of the 'imperishable.'
(478) O the great Archer, whatever is creation, animate or inanimate, right from the 'Mahat' to the
little blade of grass,
