(479) Whatever is great or small, the moving or the fixed and whatever is perceptible by the mind
and intellect,
(480) Whatever is made up of five great elements, whatever has name and form and whatever is
within the scope of the three qualities.
(481) That gold from which the coin of each and every 'being' is minted, and whatever pawns are
used in the game of gambling with 'Time';
(482) Whatever is known by wrong knowledge or due to delusion, whatever is born from moment to
moment and is destroyed.
(483) Whatever false structure of the creation is posed as true through the great confusion of false
concepts- in short, whatever is called 'the world'.
(484) That which is consisting of eight divisions, because of the power of illusion and whatever is
consisting of thirty-six different elements in the field which is our body.
(484) How much more should be told again, which has recently been described by the image of tree
of worldly life?
(486) Thinking that, this is all its place of residence, the spirit itself has become of the shape of this
world.
(487) Just like the lion seeing his reflection in a well, thinks that there is another lion there, gets
angry and jumps into it.
(488) Or just like the reflection of the sky above falls on the water, which is also of the nature of the
sky, so the non-duality de-generates and accepts the state of duality.
(489) O Arjuna, in this way the Atman imagines that this is the city to be dwelt in, forgets his own
real nature and goes to sleep there.
(490) Now just as a man sees a bed-room in his dream, and goes to sleep there in the dream only; the
Atman goes to sleep in this imagined city.
(491) In that sleep, he starts snoring to the effect that 'I am happy', and 'I am unhappy', and starts
chattering in the dream with the words full of the notion of 'I' and 'Mine'.
(492) "This is my father, this is my mother, I am fair, I am very poor, This is my son, this is my wife,
they are mine, is it not?"
(493) Saying such things in that dream, he enters the forests of this world and the other world. O
Arjuna, the consciousness which acts like this is called the "perishable."
