(494) He who is called the knower of the field, and the state which is called as "Jeeva" by all the
people;
(495) He who forgets himself and behaves in accordance with the conditionings of whatever body he
occupies, that Atman is called the 'Perishable' or 'Kshara, Purusha'.
(496) Since, he is really the absolute Brahman, the name Purusha is proper for him and since he
sleeps in the town of body the name Purusha is proper in that sense; also. (Pur = town; puri - in
the town) shete- sleeps.
(197) And he has been wrongly accused of being perishable because he has become a slave to the
conditionings and attributes of the body.
(498) He appears to be undergoing changes, just like the reflection of moon fallen in moving waters
appears to be moving.
(499) Just as the light of the moon reflected in the water disappears, when the moving waters are
completely dried-up, so, when the conditioning or attributes are eliminated, the distortions due to
those attributes also disappear.
(500) Since the Purusha becomes ephemeral by the force of the conditioning to which he becomes
attached, he is called by the name of "Kshara Purusha."
(501) Therefore, the spirit at the level of the Jeeva should be known as 'perishable male principle.
Now I shall explain nicely what is the nature of the 'Imperishable.'
(502) O the great Archer, this second Purusha is only a witness, just like the mountain Meru among
all mountains.
(503) Because just as the mountain Meru is not divided in three parts, in spite of its existence in the
three worlds, namely the earth, the nether-world and the heaven, similarly this Prursha is not
involved either in knowledge or ignorance.
(504) He does not attain unity by right knowledge about truth, nor assumes duality by ignorance,
Thus, pure, non-cognisant stability is his nature.
(505) For example, when the quality of earth is lost, neither pots nor vessels can be manufactured
out of it. This witness, is the imperishable like the earth without its quality.
(506) The abstract state of this disinterested 'Purusha' is like the condition in which there is neither
wave, nor water, when the sea is dried up.
(507) O Partha, there is a condition in which wakefulness has been reduced to nil and actual dream
has not started, and there is only a non-specific state in which the eyes neither 'see' nor 'do not
