see'. The state of this 'Purusha' is like this.
(508) Awareness of the surrounding universe has ceased and the self-knowledge has not yet become
quite clear. This state of nescience is called Akshara.
(509) The nature of Akshara is like the invisibility of the Moon, having lost all her phases on the
darkest night of the lunar month.
(510) The state of the Jeeva dissolves by elimination of all the attributes; and when the fruit of a tree
is ripe, the whole tree is dormant in its seed.
(511) Similarly when the attributes cease to exist, it remains dormant. That state is called 'Avyakta'
or unmanifest.
(512) The deep sleep is equivalent to deep ignorance, and the dream state and walking state are the
fruits of that state of sleep.
(513) What is called as the state of seed, in Vedanta terminology is the abode of this Akshara -
Purusha.
(514) That is the place from which wrong type of knowledge comes forth and it roams about in the
forest of logic and bad-logic through the states of dream and wakefulness.
(515) That is the place from where both the "I" as Jeeva and "All" as the Universe come about, and
where the unmanifest and the manifest meet together- O Arjuna, that state is called Akshara
Purusha or the imperishable principle.
(516) The other Purusha, who is perishable, and who plays the games of dream and wakefulness in
the outer world is born out of this state.
(517) Similarly the state just below or lower than the state of Brahman, which is well known as the
state of sleep is of the nature of deep ignorance.
(518) And O the brave warrior! If an appearance of two states of dream and wakefulness were not
there, it would have been properly called the state of Brahman;
(519) But it is the state like the sky in which two clouds of Prakriti and Purusha (Matter and Spirit)
are born and there is illusory perception of "The field" and "The knower of the field"
(520) In short, that is the root called Akshara purusha, from which the tree of life with branches
growing downwards are coming forth.
(521) Then why is this called Purusha when he is complete in himself as Atman? That is because he
sleeps in the town of this Maya.
