(522) The state in which the activities of various modifications and distortions, which is only a work
of ignorance are not experienced, is this state of his sleep.
(523) Therefore, He is never destroyed. He is also not affected by lack of knowledge.
(524) Therefore, in the terms used while explaining the final principles in Vedanta, He is called
Akshara or non-perishable.
(525) In short, know that it is spirit only which is called Akshara Purusha, who is the cause of the
existence of Jeeva as a separate entity; and attachment with Maya is his sign of recognition.
उ मः पु ष व यः परमा मा युदा तः|
यो लोकतयमािव य िबभ य यय ई रः
The supreme person is yet other than these, who having entered all the three worlds, upholds and
maintains all, and is the imperishable lord and the supreme spirit. (17)
(526) Both the states of dream and wakefulness, which are caused by wrong type of knowledge in
this world, merge into this state of deep ignorance.
(527) But when that ignorance is destroyed by knowledge and when the knowledge comes ahead in
its fullness, then just as the fire burns the wood and ends itself also;
(528) So, the knowledge destroys the ignorance and by indicating the state of Atman, it becomes
itself destroyed. Then there is still something, which remains without the knowledge.
(529) He is the supreme person. He is proved to be different from the two persons described earlier
as the 'Perishable' and 'Imperishable.'
(530) O Arjuna, for example, the waking state is quite different from the state of sleep and the state
of dreams.
(531) Or the vastness of the solar effulgence is quite different from its normal rays and the illusory
mirage. The supreme person (Uttama Purusha) should be known like the Sun.
(532) The fire which is in the wood is quite different from the wood. Similarly the supreme person
is quite different from the Kshara and the Akshara persons.
(533) And the one totally pervasive sea at the time of final deluge, devours all the water sources,
rivers and seas in one watery existence;
(534) Similarly, in Him not even the names of the three states of waking, dreaming and sleeping
remain; just as day and night become extinct at the time of the final deluge, in the totality of light.
