(535) And as all the states are dissolved, there is no experience of duality or non-duality in his
being.
(536) And that which is something still existing, is the supreme person, and is called by the name of
Paramatman.
(537) But, O the son of Pandu, that is only possible to say, by keeping our state of Jeeva active, and
our not merging into that Paramatman, just as it is possible to talk about somebody's drowning,
only for a man on the bank of the pond;
(538) Thus it is possible for Vedas to talk about what is here on this shore and what is beyond, only
by standing on the bank of discriminative power of knowledge.
(539) Therefore, the Vedas have called as 'lower person' both the perishable and imperishable, and
called the supreme person who is beyond these as the 'Paramatman'.
(540) O Arjuna, please know that this supreme person is called "Purushottama".
(541) Actually, not to talk is the talking in that state, not to know anything is the knowledge in that
state, and not to be anything is the being in that state.
(542) There the concept of 'SOHAM' (I AM THAT) does not remain, the speaker becomes the
spoken, and the observer disappears together with the 'observable'.
(543) We may not be able to see the light between the reflection and the original thing; but we should
not say that it is not existing;
(544) Similarly, though the fragrance between the flower on one side and the nose on the other side
may not be visible, but we cannot say that it is not existing;
(545) Similarly though the observer on one part and the observable thing on the other part may
disappear, it is not logical to say that nothing remains. Therefore what is experienced in that state
should be known as the existence of the supreme person.
(546) He is not being illuminated by anything, but He is illuminating everything; He is not the
controlled but is Himself the controller; and He is Himself the space and the occupier of the
space;
(547) He is sound listening to sound, taste tasting the taste, and joy enjoying the joy.
(548) He is the completeness of the complete. The Purusha is the supreme Purusha and the rest has
come to rest in him.
(549) He is happiness getting happy, light finding the light and in him the void at the Jeeva level
