like that of the lotus petals.
(572) That totality of the substantive meaning which is obtained after churning the Brahman in the
form of words, (Vedas) which is the outcome of the intelligence of the great sage Vyasa, is
offered to you very simply.
(573) This is the river Ganges of the nectar of knowledge, or the seventeenth ultimate phase of the
'Moon' of joy, or a new 'Goddess Laxmi' emerging out of the sea of 'milk' of proper thought.
(574) Therefore, she does not know anybody else than me, by her 'terms', her 'letters' or the essence
of love in the shape of their 'meanings'.
(575) The perishable and the imperishable came in front of this goddess but disregarding their
masculinity or their being Purusha, she surrendered herself to me, the supreme person.
(576) Therefore, Geeta is my beloved and loyal wife, the wife of Atman that I am; and you have
heard this now.
(577) This science of Geeta is not easy to explain in the ordinary language; but this is a weapon
which conquers the mundane life; and it has letters which invoke the Atman!
(578) O Arjuna, I have, however, revealed it to you, which is as if I have taken out a secret treasure
in my heart and given it.
(579) O Partha, I am the Lord Shankar in the field of spiritual knowledge and this Geeta is like the
most valuable treasure like the Ganges held on the head of that god and just as sage Gautama
became the man who brought down the Godawari (Southern Ganges) in this world you have
become instrumental to bring this Geeta to the world, by your deep interest in it.
(580) O Dhananjaya, you have become a mirror which I hold before my eyes in order to be sure
about my true nature.
(581) Just as the sea brings within it the whole sky with all the stars, as a reflection, you have got in
your mind, Geeta as well as me, in totality, as 'Understanding.'
(582) Arjuna! Since you are free from the blemishes of the three 'Gunas' or modifications, you have
become the place of residence for Geeta.
(583) But how can I praise this Geeta adequately? He who knows this vine of knowledge, really
becomes free from all attractions.
(584) O! Son of Pandu, if a man drinks from the river of nectar, it definitely cures the disease and
gives immortality to him.
