(585) What wonder is there that by knowing this Geeta, the attraction of sense-object disappears?
More than that it gives self-knowledge and makes it possible to attain the state of Atman.
(586) And when that self-knowledge is attained, Action also dissolves, knowing that its life's
mission is finished.
(587) O the brave man! Just as the search comes to an end when the lost thing is found, the temple of
Action has the dome of knowledge on it, completed; and therefore, action ceases to be.
(588) Therefore, a man of self- knowledge has no necessity of doing any action. -Thus the resort of
all destitutes, the Lord Shrikrishna said- says Dnyaneshwara-
(589) That nectar of the words of Shrikrishna was filling the mind of Arjuna and was overflowing
from it which., by the grace of Vyasa, Sanjaya was also receiving.
(590) Since Dhritarashtra was the recipient of it from Sanjaya, later on he did not suffer much at the
time of his own death.
(591) Even if it is felt that a certain man is not worthy of listening to Geeta, later on Geeta definitely
becomes his saviour.
(592) We may think that milk poured at the roots of grape-vine plant is wasted, but when we taste the
fruit, we see it to be doubly useful.
(593) Thus Dhritarashtra listened to Sanjaya, who told him respectfully the words uttered by the
Lord himself, and he became happy in the due course of time.
(594) The same teaching, I have somehow, according to my ability, crudely put into Marathi
language.
(595) In the flower like 'Shevanti,' people may not find a much attractive shape, but its quality is
known by the blue-beetles which take away the nectar.
(596) So, I request you the listeners to please accept what seems to you the correct doctrine and
leave untouched what is not, for me only, because it is but natural for a child not to know right or
wrong.
(597) Even if the child is ignorant, the parents are happy beyond limits as soon as they see it and
lovingly fondle it.
(598) Similarly, the saints like you are my parental home and meeting you, I have become a bit bold
and pampered. My commentary on Geeta may be seen as an example of my boldness.
(599) And now, the king Nivruttinath, who is Universal God for me, may please accept this worship
