(79) And just as the faithful and devoted wife of a husband who has gone away to another town, does
not relish any pleasure in anything else; or care for any loss; but remains apathetic towards
everything.
(80) Or when the intellect is really enjoying the bliss in its Reality, and so there
is full merger of it in the Reality, that state is the virtue called purity of consciousness, by the
Lord Shrikrishna, who is the slayer of the demon Keshi.
(81) And the steadiness of the intellect in its abiding love for self- knowledge;
(82) Thus to relinquish all the desires or tendencies of the mind in the state of the merger of one's
selfishness, is called "the Yoga of knowledge fully achieved." The seeker should offer as an
oblation, the final sacrifice of his very being, by banishing all desires.
(83) This is like a daughter of a noble person given in marriage to bridegroom
who is also from a noble family; or like the goddess Laxmi (Riches) staying permanently with the
Lord Mukunda, (Vishnu).
(84) To banish all doubts from the mind and be totally involved in the knowledge of Yoga is the
third virtue, called as "the state of Yoga of knowledge" by the Lord Shrikrishna.
(85) And not to deny every kind of help even to our enemy who is suffering; may the help be
physical, or by a consoling speech or giving some money to him.
(86) O Dhananjaya, this quality is like the charitable attitude of a tree which gives the leaves, the
fruit, the shade, the flowers and even the roots to any traveller who comes near it;
(87) In the same way, when a man offers everything including money, foodgrains etc. to anyone who
comes to his house,
(88) That is called "charity" - This is such a divine ointment that opens the vision to see the total
freedom. Now, I shall tell you about control of the sense-organs.
(89) This control is cutting the connection between the sense organs and their objects just as a brave
soldier cuts to pieces his enemy by his sword.
(90) In this, the sense-organs are subjected to severe withdrawal so that they should not be affected
by the onslaught of the sense-objects.
(91) Then the outgoing desire becomes afraid by the moral strength of the mind and leaves the mind
to save itself from death, and there is fire of deirelessness guarding the doors of all the organs.
(92) This man practises such penances which are more constant than breathing and vigourously
maintains it day and night;
