(93) So, this is the nature of control, told to you in measured pharases. Now, I shall tell you the signs
of "sacrifice."
(94) Thus, consider on one side the well-versed Brahmins with their supreme authority in
performance of fire-sacrifices, and on the last line, women, etc, who have no authority to perform
these; and consider all the castes which have their own grades of being authorised in this respect.
(95) In this range, those who worship their respective deities, may do so with the sense of duty as
ordained by the scriptures;
(96) And you may know that both the well versed Brahmin performing his six duties and the lowly
caste man who simply bows before him, reap the same kind of fruit; because their actions are
equal in respect of "sacrifice".
(97) Similarly, it is the duty of each man to perform some kind of sacrifice according to his own
status and authority, but it should not be poisoned by the poison of craving for results.
(98) And he should not allow the concept that he is the actor, to ener in it. Anyway, everyone has to
obey the dictates of Vedas in the performance of one's duties.
(99) O Arjuna, this is the nature of sacrifice which touches every caste in the society and you should
know that this sacrifice then becomes a wise companion on the path towards liberation.
(100) Now, a ball is hit on the gorund, only to get it back in our hand, and similarly, seeds are sown
in the field keeping an eye on the crop which we will reap.
(101) This is like using a lamp with all the care hoping to find out what is in a dark place, or
sprinkling water at the root of a tree with a hope to pluck its fruit.
(102) Or, in other words, it is like wiping clean again and again a mirror in order to see our own
reflection clearly in it;
(103) So, it is necessary to take the help of the Vedas, in order to understand the real nature of god
who is the subject of knowledge of the Vedas.
(104) For attaining the Brahman, study of Brahma Sutras, etc. is useful for the Brahmins and other
"twice-born" and prayers or repetition of the sacred name of God is sufficient for others.
(105) O Arjuna, this is called self-study or Swadhyaya. Now I shall tell you the definition of
penance.
(106) To give up every possession in charity is the real fulfilment of life; it is like the natural drying
up of a plant when it bears the seeds;
