(115) The bud of jasmine flower is pointed but very soft, and the brightness of Moon is not hot but
cool. His talk is like this, and that is the definition of Truth.
(116) As there is no medicine which cures the disease only by seeing it, and is not bitter to the taste;
it is very difficult to give a simile to the Truth.
(117) Water has such a softness that if you splash it in the eyes it does not harm the pupils, but it is
so hard that by its constant fall on a stone, it creates a hole in it.
(118) Like that, the speech which is true, is very sharp in cutting away the confusion and illusion,
just as tempered steel, but it is very pleasant to listen to.
(119) While listening to it, the ears develop tongues so that they can eat it but by its acute
truthfulness it analyses even the Brahman.
(120) It is very lovable but does not deceive or irritate anybody;
(121) Otherwise the song of the hunter is sweet but very dangerous to the animals and the fire, no
doubt, purifies very thoroughly but it burns down anything!
(122) That speech which is sweet to the ear but its meaning is cruelly killing cannot be said to be a
sweet speech.
(123) The nature of this true speech is like the mother's harsh words of admonishing her child for its
naughty behaviour, which is for his welfare only; and like her very tender words like flowers
while caressing it.
(124) This speech is thus pleasant to the ears, good in its effect and is free from evil thoughts. That
should be known as truth.
(125) Now, a stone does not have sprouts and rice-wash water does not yield butter by churning it.
(126) The discarded skin of a serpent does not spread its hood though beaten by stick, and the sky
has no flowers even though it is spring time on the earth.
(127) Or the mind of the sage Shuka is not disturbed by the supreme beauty of Rambha the divine
damsel, and ashes will not be flared up even if ghee is poured on them.
(128) Similarly, even if anybody utters such harsh words by which even a child will get angry;
(129) O Arjuna, this man's peace does not get disturbed just as a dead man does not get up even if
we may prostrate ourselves before God the creator and pray!
(130) That peaceful state is called lack of anger.
