(131) Now, by discarding the clay one discards the pot, by giving up a thread the piece of cloth is
also given up, and by rejecting a seed one automatically rejects the banyan tree;
(132) Or by giving up a wall, the painting on it is also given up and by ending of sleep, the whole
activities in the dream are finished.
(133) Even by denying the water we deny the waves on it, by denying the rainy season, clouds are
automatically given up; and by relinquishing money, all the enjoyments are also dropped.
(134) Similar to these examples, the wise people should give up their pride and with it all the
worldly affairs.
(135) That is the real renunciation, the real giving up- so said the Lord Shrikrishna whose very being
is the image of sacrifice. On this the most fortunate Partha asked him–
(136) "Now please tell me the manifest nature of peace." Upon this, the Lord said, "Please listen."
(137) Peace is that state of existence in which the knower, after merging within him the
knowable,becomes non-existent together with the knowledge.
(138) This is like the great deluge of final dissolution, which wipes away all the various bodies of
waters by merger and remains an all-pervading one totality
(139) Then, there is no separate recognition of river, its beginning, its flow, its final stage of merger
into the sea, and the totality is water only, where there is nobody else to say that it is "water"-
(140) Thus, O the crowned one! The factor as knower, becomes one with the object of knowledge;
and does not remain as any separate entity. That is the nature of peace.
(141) Now I shall tell you about lack of evil intent. A god doctor, while trying to cure his patient of
a disease, does not consider his patient as his enemy, when the latter is suffering by his ailment
and he is using medicines for it.
(142) Or a man sees a cow drowning in a rut of mud and tries to save her life, without checking
whether she is barren or milk-giving.
(143) Or, a compassionate life-guard who tries to save a drowning man, does not check whether he
belongs to the Brahmin caste or a low caste. His only concern is to save his life.
(144) Or, if a noble person happens to glance at a woman who is made naked by a sinner in a jungle,
he does not look at her again without first throwing some cover over her;
(145) Similar to these examples, the persons when they see others who are either due to ignorance or
delusion, or due to their wrong past deeds, rotting in the evil and miserable conditions,
