(146) Give them their full personal strength and make them forget their acute pangs of sufferings due
to their bad conditions;
(147) O Arjuna, they cleanse the defects of others by their kind gaze and then they start observing
them in details.
(148) It is like doing meditation on 'God' by first performing worship of his image with all beautiful
things or by sowing seeds in a field and then going to guard it, or to receive blessings of a guest
by first giving him in reception everything which satisfies him.
(149) Similarly, they make good by their virtue, whatever is wanting in another person and then they
look at him.
(150) Further they do not speak out openly any shameful actions of others that may hurt them, and
they do not slander anybody.
(151) By whatever means possible, they try to re-build that man's fallen prestige or position but
never castigate him about his failings.
(152) They never scorn at some as lowly in order to give esteem to some others; not only that, but
normally they do not see for faults in the behaviour of others.
(153) O Arjuna, this is the virtue called lack of evil gossip, and know that this is one of the steps on
the path of liberation.
(154) Now I shall tell you what is pity. This quality is like the Moon who does not discriminate
between anybody as greater or smaller while bestowing the coolness of her light on the world.
(155) The man who is having compassion, does not become partial to anybody, as greater or smaller
when he is trying to alleviate the sufferings of people.
(156) In this world water itself is perishable but it gives new life to grass, even while it dries up in
that process.
(157) Similarly, the compassion of this man is so ardent that he does not mind even to give up
everything to give relief to a sufferer.
(158) Just as a stream of water does not flow forward unless the ditch in the way is first filled up; so
also, he does not go forward unless he gives relief to a sufferer who comes along.
(159) Just as when a thorn pricks a foot of a man, his face is distorted with pain, so, this man feels
the pangs of the suffering of other people.
(160) He becomes very happy by the happiness of others, just as the coolness felt by the feet has a
