cooling effect on the eyes also.
(161) In short, his very life is meant for giving happiness to others just like water which is created
as if only for quenching the thirst of beings.
(162) O the great warrior! Know that he is the very image of compassion, and I am indebted to him
right from his birth.
(163) Now, I shall tell you about not being attached to all things. This virtue is like the Sun who
does not touch the lotus though the lotus may turn its face towards the Sun with all its devotion.
(164) Or like the spring season, which does not stay on even though it is the cause of great efflorence
in the whole gardens of trees.
(165) Even if goddess Laxmi with all the great occult powers may approach and kneel before him,
he will not give her respect, just like the Lord Vishnu.
(166) Similarly even if all the pleasures of this world or the heaven may become slaves to his wish,
he will not like to enjoy them.
(167) In short, when a man does not have any desire for enjoyment of any objects of senses, you
should know that state as lack of attachment to all things.
(168) Now, please listen to the signs of mildness in the man's character. It is like the honey-comb for
bees, like water to aquatic animals, and the sky to the birds,
(169) Or like the mother's love for the child, or the delicacy of the breeze which is touched by the
spring.
(170) His behaviour with all beings is as soft as the tender glance of lovers, or the tender gaze of the
mother tortoise towards her young ones.
(171) Camphor which is very smoth to touch, tasteful, fragrant and clean white in appearance,
(172) Could have compared well with this behaviour, if it were taken in plenty, but not become
poisonous;
(173) His attitude is such that he in his greatness may allow all the five great elements to live
happily in his belly, or he may himself remain contented to live within an atom, or he may be as
vast as the sky which covers the universe;
(174) O Arjuna, such way of living which is completely in unison with the world by his breath and
soul, is what I call mildness of nature.
