(175) Now I shall define what is the quality of feeling ashamed. It is a condition similar to what a
king feels when he is defeated or what a respectable man feels when he is insulted.
(176) Or similar to a feeling of awkward disposition of a mendicant when he by chance stands
before the house of a man of the caste of Chandala,
(177) It is like the feeling of shame when a fighter has to run away from the battle ground or the
widowhood of a grently devoted wife.
(178) It is the feeling like the depression and self pity which a handsome man may experience when
he is afflicted by leprosy, or the great moroseness a man of righteousness feels if he is slandered
by others.
(179) Thus, this shame is like living as a dead man in this body of three and a half arms' length, or to
be dying from moment to moment as soon as one is born.
(180) This is the feeling of great abhorance when one thinks of the vicissitudes of life in the womb
covered by the blood, urine and fluids, as if an effigy of all these cast by destiny;
(181) There is nothing more shameful than to become a body and bear a name and form.
(182) The feeling of disgust about such body should be known as the quality of shame; which feeling
is only true in case of wise persons. For ignorant, to be attached to the body is pleasant.
(183) Now listen to the quality known as lack of frivolity. If the string on which a puppet is hung is
broken, the movement of the puppet is stopped! Similarly by strict discipline of control of breath,
the activities of organs become slow, or they cease.
(184) When the Sun sets, the rays are also withdrawn. Similarly the sense-organs are also
withdrawn when the mind is brought under control.
(185) Thus by control of the mind and control of breath, all the ten organs become steady and not
over-active. This state is called lack of frivolity.
तेजः मा धृितः शौचमदोहो नाितमािनता|
भवि त संपदं दैवीमिभजात य भारत
Brilliance, forgiveness, fortitude, cleanliness, non-enmity and absence of self-pride; these are, O
Bharata, the signs of the person who is born with the divine gifts. (3)
(186) When the mind has complete determination while stepping on the path of yoga of knowledge,
then one does not feel lack of strength.
