(187) A devout wife who intends to be a "Suttee", by burning herself on the pyre of her husband, is
not afraid though death in itself is fearsome and death by burning is still more ghastly;
(188) Similarly, Jeeva first destroys the poison of objects of the senses in order to reach the state of
Atman, and starts progressing by the path of Yoga leading to the great void, which path is really
narrow like a foot-way.
(189) Then he does not care for what is sanctioned by scriptures as rightful action and what is called
as prohibited action, nor is he enticed by any great occult powers.
(190) When the Jeeva, of his own force of earnestness, starts to run towards the God, that quality is
called "Brilliance".
(191) Similarly, the quality of forgiveness is an attitude which is not proud with a concept that "I am
the greatest of persons who forgives others freely." For example, there are innumerable hair all
over our body but we are not very cognizant that we are bearing the burden of those hair.
(192) When the sense organs go out of control or some hidden ailments suddenly become manifest in
the body or if he comes into contact with an undesirable thing or person,
(193) Or if the whole group of such painful situations attack him, he stands with great fortitude like
the sage Agastya.
(194) And when there is tremendous smoke enveloping great area of the sky, by sudden strong winds
it is dissipated in no time.
(195) Similarly this man by sheer force of his will devours the triple attack of the calamities, which
are physical, cosmic or coming from other sources outside the body.
(196) And in any situation which may otherwise totally disrupt the inner poise of other people, this
man remains unruffled. This quality is called fortitude, which O Arjuna, you should carefully
understand.
(197) Now about cleanliness, I will say that it is like a vessel with gold plating, which is filled with
the water of the Ganges.
(198) This is because the obvious signs of purity or cleanliness are the doing of actions by the body
without selfish motive, and to be well-armed with the quality of discrimination in the behaviour.
(199) Further just as the water of the Ganges proceeds finally towards the sea, by quenching the
thirst of all the beings in that course and giving nourishment to the trees on its banks.
(200) Or just as the Sun dissipates the blindness of the world, opens the great glorious temples of
heavenly riches, and starts his travel in the sky.
