(201) Similarly this man frees the men in bondage, saves persons who are drowned and removes the
calamities of the sufferers.
(202) He is satisfied by giving happiness to others continuously and more and more day by day.
(203) He never thinks of hurting others in order to be successful in his own undertakings.
(204) O Arjuna, these signs which you have just now listened to, are indicative of non-enmity aginst
anybody.
(205) And when the Ganges was held by the Lord Shankara in the tangle of hair
on his head, she became very bashful and small. Similarly, when a man is honoured, he feels very
awkward and withdraws into himself.
(206) This is absence of self-pride, which I have already described earlier which need not be
repeated. You should understand this by observation.
(207) In this way, these are the twenty-six qualities or divine virtues, which are like the citations
awarded in the empire of the great emperor called liberty.
(208) Or this divine riches is like the river Ganges, which is always full of the waters of the virtues
and is flowing with all her force towards the sons of Sagara and this virtue is embodied as
desirelessness.
(209) Or this divine glory of virtues is a garland of flowers of good qualities and it is held by the
bride named 'liberation' who is putting the garland around the neck of the bridgegroom, who is
desirelessness itself.
(210) Or the wife named Geeta is lighting the wicks of these twenty-six virtues, and is waving these
lights respectfully before her husband, who is Atmaram.
(211) These virtues are like brilliant lustrous pearls from the shell of divine riches obtained from the
ocean of Geeta.
(212) How far can I describe the greatness of this riches adequately? It is most naturally experienced
automatically. Thus I have described the divine riches, which is the store-house of good qualities.
(213) Now the demonic qualities which make for evil, are being described in the flow of my address
to you, which is like a creeper full of thorns of various vices.
(214) My dear, in order to discard something which is very bad we have to observe it and know that
it is so. Therefore, though this evil group of qualities is absolutely undersirable, it is necessary to
listen to their exact nature.
