(215) Dear Arjuna, in order to earn the great suffering of total degradation, the whole gang of sins
has come together with ferocious intent and in this way, this evil property has come into being.
(216) Or just as when all the poisons are mixed together, the mixture is called Kalakoot, similarly
when all the sins are rolled together into a ball, it is called the demonic riches or evil property.
द भो दप ऽिभमान कोधः पा यमेव च|
अ ानं चािभजात य पाथ स पदमासुरीम्
O Partha! Hypocrisy, arrogance and pride, anger sternness and ignorance- these are the signs of a
man, who is born with demonic properties. (4)
(217) And O the great warrior, now I will tell you the characteristics of hypocrisy, which is famous
for its great power.
(218) No doubt, a man's mother is really venerable and sacred but if he exposes her naked in a
public place it will be disastrous for his spiritual merit.
(219) No doubt, the knowledge or the techniques taught by a man's teacher is
very useful to him, but if he reveals the secrets to others, that action will be detrimental to his
welfare.
(220) If a boat which helps a man to cross the flooded river, is lifted and placed on the head of a
man, it will only cause the man to be drowned.
(221) No doubt, food is helpful for keeping oneself alive, but if it is gulped down profusely, it may
be like a poison.
(222) No doubt, religions performances are helpers both in this life and the other world, but if one
publicly advertises about one's good deeds, it becomes a blemish.
(223) O the great warrior! If we babble and proudly declare about our own religious rituals or other
actions done through sympathy, and propagate them in all the quarters of this world; then that
religion become irreligious. That is called hypocrisy.
(224) Now I shall describe what is arrogance. When a foolish person learns something about
literature, he becomes so proud that he begins to criticize the conference of people who have
realized Brahman.
(225) Or a wild horse of a horse-rider thinks itself superior to even the divine elephant Airawata, or
a chamelion on the top of a thorny hedge thinks that heaven is not so far away.
(226) A little fire when it touches a heap of dried grass, flares up with such a force that we feel that
