it wants to touch the sky; or a fish in a little pond thinks very little of the vast sea, because it is
satisfied with the pond.
(227) Similarly a man becomes proud and arrogant by various causes such as possesion of beautiful
woman, money, education, praise done by others and honour; like a beggar thinks himself very
rich even by one day's food given to him by others.
(228) This foolish arrogance is like the stupid action of a man who thinks that the shade of a cloud is
sufficient and therefore demolishes his house, or like the stupidity of a man who demolishes his
water tank by seeing the illusory waters of mirage.
(229) In short, to be proud by possession of anything is called arrogance. There is no exception to
this.
(230) Now I shall tell you about self-esteem or pride. In the world, all the people have faith in
Vedas and in this faith God is believed to be the Supreme; and that God is like the Sun who
illuminates all the universe.
(231) All the world has hopes for great all-embracing glory and it always hopes not to die at all;
(232) If the world praises God because of this, what strange or wrong is there in that? But a man of
pride, who has this vice, becomes bitter and jealous about it all and by being puffed up, says -
(233) "I will eat up your God! I will put Vedas to death by poisoning and by my own powers I will
destroy all their importance!"
(234) Just as a moth hates a flame, a firefly disrespects the Sun or just as the little bird became the
enemy of the ocean because its young ones fell in the ocean;
(235) Similarly, this man, out of his misplaced pride, cannnot tolerate even the mention of the name
of God. He even hates his father because he fears that his father may share his property.
(236) He is thus sullenly arrogant and very much proud of himself. He should be known as the
highway to hell.
(237) What is the sign of anger? When this man sees someone else happy, he invardly becomes
poisoned by anger.
(238) Just as hot oil flares up if a little water falls in it and just as a fox becomes irritated at the sight
of the moon;
(239) Just as when the Sun rises illuminating the life of the world in the morning, the eyes of an owl
become useless;
