(240) Just as the dawn which gives happiness to the world, becomes a source of great annoyance to
the robbers, or just as milk sipped by a serpent turns into venom only.
(241) Or just as the fire in the sea does not become extinguished by its waters but becomes more
aggravated.
(242) Similarly this man of devilish character becomes greatly annoyed and irritated at the sight of
happiness, learning, and other virtues of others. This disturbance should be called "Anger".
(243) Now I shall tell you what is the quality of stern-ness. His mind is just like the hole where a
serpent lies hidden, his eyes are as sharp as arrows and his talk is like the downpour of burning
coal.
(244) All other actions of this man are like the sharp saw. All his mental and outward life is sharp
and hard like this.
(245) Know this man as the lowest of human beings. He is the incarnation of stern-ness. Thus I have
told you about this vice. Now listen to the mark of ignorance.
(246) Just as a stone does not feel the difference between hot and cold touch, or a born-blind man
does not know the difference between day and night;
(247) Just as a fire which is conflagrated does not care what is to be gutted and what is not, or a
stone of 'Parees', does not know the difference between the gold and the iron;
(248) Or just as the ladle dipped in all kinds of food articles of various tastes, does not know any of
those tastes;
(249) Or just as the wind does not examine what is the highway and what is the by- lane; there is in a
man, total insensitivity about what is the right action and what is prohibited action.
(250) This is like a child which puts anything in its mouth without knowing what is good or what is
bad.
(251) This is a state of mind which does not feel anything in committing sinful or good actions.
(252) This is called ignorance. Thus I have shown to you the marks of all the six bad qualities.
(253) With these six vices the demonic qualities are made more forceful just as there is very severe
poison even in a small serpent.
(254) There are three types of fires, one is the fire at the time of total destruction,
fire in the lightning and in the sea. Though these fires may appear small at the beginning, they
devour all the universe like nothing! These six vices are like those fires.
