(255) When all the three products in the body, namely cough, gasses and the bile, become united,
death cannot be averted even if God is propiated. These six vices are double than those three!
(256) The demonic quality is built up on the support of all these six vices. Therefore it is never
weakened.
(257) Just as there is a concentration of bad planets in one Rashi (zodiacal sign) or just as all the
sins gather near a man who is a cynic.
(258) Or just as all the diseases attack a man whose death is near, or just as at a bad time all
unauspicious planetary conjunctions happen to be evident,
(259) Or just as a trusting man should be handed over to a robber, or a man who is already tired
should be thrown in a great flood; so, these six vices cause very evil things to happen.
(260) When the life of a she-goat is at an end, she suffers pain as if bitten by a very poisonous
scorpion, Similarly all these six vices bite the man.
(261) Even if there is a little tendency to turn towards the path of liberation, he adamantly decides
not to do so and plunges into his mundane life;
(262) He goes further and further down the steps of lower categories of rebirths and lastly goes even
below the category of stone;
(263) But enough with this description. All these vices increase his character of demonic nature.
(264) So, I have told you these two separate types of characters or qualities which are well - known
in the world.
दैवी संपि मो ाय िनबंधायासुरी मता|
मा शुचः संपदं दैवीमिभजातोऽिस पांडव
The divine property gives liberation and the demonic property is considered as a binding factor,
O Pandava! Lament not! You are surely born with the divine qualities. (5)
(265) Know that the first of these two which is divine property, is as if the dawn of the Sun of
liberation.
(266) The second which is the demonic property is really the iron chain of enticement and attraction
for all the Jeevas.
(267) But you may perhaps be afraid by hearing this. But do not fear. Can the day become afraid of
the night?
