(293) Can we tell which of the limbs of a camel is proportionate so that we could call it as a
beautiful limb? Similar is the nature of these demonic people.
(294) I will tell you. Please listen. Just as great gushes of smoke are emitted from the top hole of a
tall chimney, similar are their words.
अस यमपित ं ते जगदाहरनी रम्|
अपर परसंभूतं िकम य कामहैतुकम्
They declare that this world is not established on Truth, nor it is having any God, it is not bound
by the law of cause and effect, and it is nothing but made to satisfy the passions of all. (8)
(295) The fact is that this universe is without beginning, and God is the conroller of this universe,
which is declared to be true by Vedas on the open platform of the world.
(296) It is the faith of all, that he who is decided by Vedas to be a sinner, suffers punishment in the
hell and he who is decided by them to be a just man, enjoys happiness in the heaven.
(297) Now, O Partha, these demonic people call this whole arrangement which is proved to be
without beginning in a time-frame, as false and they do not at all give credance to it.
(298) They further say that– "Stupid people fond of ritualistic sacrifices are fooled by it, the
worshippers of images are caught in the net of idol-worship and the so- called monks who don
the saffron robes, are baffled by the idea of trance.
(299) They say that whatever is available around us, should be enjoyed with all our strength. What
other merit is there than this?
(300) And if a man cannot possess various things of enjoyment and simply has self-pity because he
is too weak to enjoy them- that is the greatest sin.
(301) They say that it is a sin to kill people who are rich, but it is also true that we get all their
possessions, which is a merit.
(302) They further ask that if it is a sin that the stronger should eat the weaker, why are not the bigger
fish without any progeny when they eat the smaller ones?
(303) They say that people arrange marriages by carefully enquiring about the family background of
the bride and bridegroom, after matching their horoscopes, and on a very auspecious day, but the
main purpose of marriages is to produce children.
(304) Then, the beasts and the birds produce so many young ones, but what scriptures and
horoscopes do they follow?
