(305) Even if the money is earned by robbery, does that money become a poison? If there is love in
extra- marital relationship, does it follow that the result of it is leprosy?
(306) Therefore, if we go on to believe that God is the controller of all, he makes a man to reap the
results of his good or bad actions, and the enjoyment or suffering in the other world depends upon
what we do here,
(307) Then we do not see the other world nor is God found anywhere. Therefore, all this doctrine is
false. If the existence of the doer is disproved, where is the question of reaping the fruits of
actions?
(308) When we see the conditions in both the worlds as described, we find that the worm is equally
enjoying its muddy environment as the God Indra is enjoying the company of Urvashi, the divine
damsel.
(309) Therefore, it is not proper to say that the heaven and the hell are the results of merit and sin
respectively because the sexual passion is equally safisfied in both the conditions.
(310) So it is obvious that when male and female come together to satisfy their lust and sex, all the
beings are born.
(311) Further just as this desire which nourishes people by mutual attraction, also becomes itself
destroyer of all, due to mutual hatred.
(312) Such is the train of thought of these demonic people who say that there is no other base for the
whole world except sexual desire.’’
(313) But enough of this undesirable and dirty description because by going into prolonged
explanation of these tendencies, we will only spoil our tongue.
एतां ि मव य न ा मानोऽ पबु यः|
पभव युगकमाणः याय जगतोऽिहताः
Having this evil attitude, these people with little understanding of life, with their soul lost for
ever, become perpetrators of hideous crimes which spell the destruction of the world by their
devilish intentions (9)
(314) And being jealous of god they go on simply giving vent to their bitterness, but they are not so
firm in their opinions.
(315) Or we may say that just as a bone is buried vertically at the boundary of the locality of lower
class people outside the main town, they bury the bone of atheism into their beings, by sponsoring
the heretic atheism.
