(316) In that event, both the respect for heavenly life and fear of hell, are burned down in their life.
(317) Dear Arjuna, thus they simply get caught in the strait-jacket of this body and get drowned in
the, bubbling abnoxious material of sense-objects.
(318) For example, when water in a pond begins to be dried up, the fish have their doom's day at
hand because the fishermen come with their net; or when the time of death comes near, diseases
become more prevalent.
(319) Or just as the very rise of the planet Ketu is indication of worse conditions on the earth; the
very birth of these evil men is indicative of destruction of people.
(320) When the seed of evil sprouts, these young offshoots of demonish people grow and we can say
that these people are living pillars of victory of sins.
(321) And just as the fire does not know anything else than to burn both the back side and the front
side, these people know only to do evil things.
(322) And listen how these people justify their stupid actions by tremendous pride- so said
Shriniwas, the lord Shrikrishna.
काममािश य दु पूरं द भमानमदाि वताः|
मोहाद् गृही वाऽस ाहान् पवत तेऽशुिचवताः
Cherishing insatiable desires and embracing false doctrines out of ignorance, these people of
impure conduct, move in this world and act, full of hypocrisy, pride and arrogance. (10)
(323) The Lord said, "A net is not filled by water and the fire never finds fuel enough. Similarly
these people have in them that desire, which is the most leading vice of unsatiable nature.
(324) And they hold fast to that desire and develop aound them the hypocrisy of devilish intention as
well as insolence.
(325) Then they have that pride and stubborness in their character even in their old age, similar to a
wild elephant, who is given intoxicating liquor to drink.
(326) They have already an adamant nature over and above their foolishness; then their adamancy
really becomes indescribable.
(327) Right from the birth, these people are expert in comitting such actions, which are definitely
harmful to others and which even crush people to death.
(328) Furthermore they boast of their own preposterous crimes all over the world and scornfully
