disregard all others. In short the net of their desires is spread by them in all the ten directions.
(329) Just as the mouth of a cow, which is not tethered and is allowed to roam free, cuts anything
that comes in her grazing way, these demonich people increase continuously their sins with
sullenness beyond limits.
िच तामप रमेयां च पलया तामुपािशताः|
कामोपभोगपरमा एताविदित िनि ताः
Giving themselves up to endless and measureless worries to be ended only by death, they remain
devoted to the enjoyment of sensuous pleasures, and are convinced that it is the highest limit of
happiness. (11)
(330) All their activities are aimed at enjoyment and they are worried about the enjoyment of
pleasures beyond the earthly life also.
(331) Now the worry which is deeper than the abyss of nether-world, and higher than the sky, and
even the whole universe is smaller than a molecule compared to it;
(332) That worry which using the measurement of the cloth of sensual pleasures, tries to harass the
soul, and does not think to leave the soul, who is its beloved even at the time of death,
(333) Is constantly nourished by them and they get themselves addicted to the empty and perishable
sensual pleasures.
(334) They harbour in their mind very firmly the concept that one should listen to the song of women,
one should constantly look upon with lust at their beauty and one should embrace them with all
one's limbs.
(335) Even the nectar should be discarded before these women, and in short they believe that there
is no better pleasure than that which is in them.
(336) Then, only to gain that enjoyment with women they go beyond the limits of the world either to
the nether world or to the heaven world.
आशापाशशतैब ाः कामकोधपरायणाः|
ईह ते कामभोगाथम यायेनाथसंचयान्
Bound by hundreds of chains of hopes and given to the constant lust and anger, they desire to
amass money by wrong means in order to be able to enjoy the pleasures of the senses. (12)
(337) These demonic people become victims of their desires just as fish bites the bait without
thinking about its result,
