(338) When they do not get what they wished they start increasing the tensions of their anxieties just
as a worm in a pupae state which goes on increasing the threads around itself.
(339) When the desire is not fulfilled, it turns into hatred. Thus they have no horizon in their lives to
reach, except the desire and hatred.
(340) O Pandava, for example, a sentry at a watchpost walks to and fro during the day and keeps
constant alert watch at night, and thus never gets rest during day and night.
(341) Similarly these people fall on the hills of anger when unfulfilled desire throws them down
from great height and they know no limits in their attachment to desire and hatred.
(342) Suppose one works up himself in the ferver of lust and desires to enjoy mundane pleasures, is
it not necessary to have enough money to obtain the objects of pleasure?
(343) So, in order to amass sufficient money for obtaining the objects of their desires these people
run throughout the world with great greed.
(344) They kill someone by treachery, rob someone of all his belongings, and indulge in devilish
magic to finish somebody else.
(345) Just like hunters going on the errand of a big hunt in a jungle they start, armed with various
nets, sacks, nooses, accompanied by hunting dogs, and hawks, taking with them wooden snaps and
pricks etc.-
(346) And just as those hunters kill many animals to fill their bellies. these evil persons commit
horrendous sins.
(347) They obtain things they want by killing others and the proud pleasure they feel by that is worth
describing.
इदम मया ल धिमदं पा ये मनोरथम्|
इदम तीदमिप मे भिव यित पुनधनम्
(They say to themselves). This much I have got today. Now I shall achieve another of my aims. I
have this much money. Again I shall get this much money, (13)
(348) He says- "How great I am! I have taken in my hand so many possessions of so many people!
(349) When he praises himself like this, his mind goes further and he says- "I shall get more wealth
from others also.
(350) This much I have already added to my property. Using this as capital, I will do business and
