(400) Now as I am the spirit and the life force in all those bodies, they harass me only, when they
burn these bodies.
(401) Now if some people luckily escape the ghastly destruction done by their black magic, they
also do not escape the slanders which are thrown at them like stones.
(402) The pious women who are faithful to their husbands, the saintly persons, men of generosity,
performers of good sacrifices, those who observe extra-ordinary penance and those who are
Sanyasis,
(403) Similarly those who are my esteemed devotees, and by whose right performance, the rituals
according to Shrutis and Smrutis become purified, are all very dear to me, as if my own 'homes'.
(404) But even these are made targets of the sharp arrows which are smeared by the poison of hatred
and brightened by acute enmity, by these devilish persons.
तानहं ि षतः क
ू रान् संसारे षु नराधमान्|
ि पा यज तमशुभानासुरी वेव योिनषु
I throw, into the categories belonging to demons, which are very evil and cursed, in the whole
world, - these lowest men who are cruel and who hate me. (19)
(405) Now, please listen to what I do to these sinners who actively hate me.
(406) I punish them because taking the benefit of the human birth, they harass the world most cruelly.
(407) I put them in the obnoxious gutters of the town of sufferings or the dumping ground of all the
discarded refuse of the city of mundane life, where stinking waters of Tamasic tendencies give
out nauseating smell!
(408) I put them into the lives of tigers or scorpions in such barren lands where there is not even a
morsel of grass to eat.
(409) There they pluck their own limbs to satisfy their pangs of acute hunger and die only to be bom
in the same disgusting conditions.
(410) Or I put them to the birth of serpents and venomous reptiles where they are affected by the
vapours of their own poisonous breath in the suffocating narrow holes in the earth.
(411) I do not give them any respite from their acute suffering, even for a moment that one takes to
exhale the breath once taken.
(412) I do not let them out of those dungeons of life for such uncountable long periods which are
