ितिवधं नरक येदं ारं नाशनमा मनः|
कामः कोध तथा लोभ त मादेत यं यजेत्
This door of hell, which is the destroyer of the purity of self, is having three folds which are
desire, anger and greed; and therefore, this door should be totally avoided. (21)
(425) One must know for sure that all evil gathers together where lust, anger and greed thrive.
(426) O Dananjaya, these three are as if guides appointed by all the sorrows so that people could be
able to find them and see them.
(427) Or this is a big gang of sins to judge the sinners and throw into hell.
(428) So long as these three have not arisen in the mind of man, the names of Rourav etc. hells
remains only a story in mythological lore.
(429) All types of troubles immediately touch man as soon as these three enter the consciousness and
loss as such is not existing separately, because these three are the very essence of loss.
(430) O the great warrior! What more should I tell you about these? This triple lance is the very
threshold of the meanest and the worst hell ever known.
(431) He who stands at the three-fold threshold of these evils, becomes the most honoured soul in
the city of hell!
(432) O the crowned one! I therefore advice keenly that among all things to be avoided by a wise
man, these three, viz. lust, anger and greed must be clearly avoided at all times.
एतैिवमु ः कौ तेय तमो ारैि तिभनरः|
आचर या मनः शेय ततो याित परां गितम्
O the son of Kunti, a man who is free from these three doors, acts only in such a way as will be
conducive to his spiritual upliftment and then reaches the place above all! (22)
(433) A man may talk of fulfillment of the four human life-time achievements like Religion, etc. only
if he has given up this triple alliance of evil forces.
(434) Here, the Lord Shrikrishna said- 'So long as these three are actively awake in a man's mind,
even I cannot be able to hear anything positive about achievement of real welfare!
(435) He further said "He who loves his own soul and fears about his self destruction should never
go to their path. He must be very alert.
