(436) Otherwise it will be like jumping into the sea by tying a big stone around one's body or to take
the Kaalakoot poison as a good meal;
(437) Thus is the result achieved through these three! Therefore you should completely wipe out the
very existence of these vices.
(438) Only when this evil chain of these three is broken, then we can walk towards happiness.
(439) Just as a body free of the three elements of cough, gas and bile which cause ailmens becomes
healthy, just as city free of gossiper, robbery and adultery is a happy city, and just as a life free of
troubles due to our own physical body, troubles caused by foreign objects and troubles caused by
divine providence, is a happy life;
(440) Similarly a soul whom these three evils of lust, anger etc. leave, becomes happy in this life
and by turning towards the path of liberation, gains the blissful company of saints and godmen.
(441) Then, with the influence of saintly company and by the actual effect of actions done in
accordance with the orders laid down in the scriptures, he travels sccessfully through the
desertlike region of birth and death and goes beyond.
(442) He then reaches the city where Atmic joy is perpetually reigning, because he gets the blessings
of his Guru.
(443) There he meets his mother, the Atman, which is the highest place of love, and in that state of
embrace, the hubbub of all the worldly life wanes totally.
(444) Thus, only he who throws away these three vices of lust, anger and greed and stands firm in
his decision, alone, can be entitled for this great bliss.
यः शा तिविधमु सृ य वतते कामकारतः|
न स िसि मवा नोित न सुखं न परां गितम्
He who gives up the rules laid down by scriptures and acts according to his own wish, does not
get success, nor happiness nor higher states in the life after death (23)
(445) But not liking any of these rules of conduct he who indulges himself in the desires, etc. by
destroying his soul.
(446) He who has disregarded the Veda who is like a father having the same kindness and justice for
all, and is the light which shows both the good things and bad things in the world.
(447) He who does not regard the code of conduct, does not care about himself, and goes on
pampering his sense-organs etc.
