(448) He who does not leave the desire, anger etc. and never disobeys their provocative impulses,
and roams about in the jungle of wild behaviour.
(449) Never gets the taste of the waters of the river of freedom. He does not see even in a dream this
river which is freedom itself.
(450) And it is not worth counting upon what progress he makes in the other world; because he does
not even get ordinary worldly pleasures and comforts.
(451) For example, a vegetarian Brahmin being provoked to catch a fish from water for eating it,
jumped into that water but instead of catching fish, he got the blame of being an irreligious
person.
(452) Similarly by greed of enjoying the objects of senses, he who tries to achieve heaven, etc.
becomes a victim of death in that effort and is thrown somewhere else in the next birth.
(453) So, he does not get the heavenly pleasures nor does he get the pleasures in this life also. What
to say about his liberation in such a situation?
(454) So, he who is intent upon enjoying pleasures by the impulsions of desires etc.; does not get
objects of pleasures here or state of happiness in the heaven and he does not get emancipation.
त मा छा तं पमाणं ते कायाकाय यवि थतौ|
ा वा शा तिवधानो ं कम कतुिमहाहिस
Therefore, in the matter of deciding what is right action and what is prohibited one, you should
abide by the standards laid down by the scriptures. You should perform actions in this world by
knowing what is said in the rules ordained by the scriptures. (24)
(455) Therefore, dear Arjuna, he who cares atleast something about his own welfare and has respect
for himself should not disregard the sayings of Vedas.
(456) When the faithful wife obeys her husband fully, she automatically earns her spiritual welfare.
(457) Or, a disciple who carefully follows the orders of his preceptor, automatically has his Atman
realized completely.
(458) Or taking another example, if we want to find out any thing kept by us in the dark, we have to
take a light in our hand, with care.
(459) Similarly, dear Partha, he who wishes to gain all the four achievements of human life, has to
give full respect to Vedas and the books of Laws.
