(460) He should give up whatever these scriptures order to give up, may it be even the kingdom and
he should take what they say, even if it is poison.
(461) And O, the great warrior, if such is his firm faith in Veda, how can any bad thing happen to
this man?
(462) You see, there is no other better mother than the Vedas, who saves you from danger and
nourish you by giving you what is good for you.
(463) Therefore, nobody should neglect this mother, who is Veda or Shruti, who enables us to reach
the sate of Brahman, and I say that you also should specially follow the dictates of this Shruti.
(464) Because you are born to perform action here which is to be proved as true according to the
natural law of religion and the dictates of scriptures and that also with the power of Dharma
vested in you.
(465) And you are also called as the younger brother of Dharma (Religion in its occult sense). So
you should not act contrary to that.
(466) When considering what is the right action and what is wrong action, these scriptures should be
made the judge and wrong action must be avoided here.
(467) Then we should execute with all our might and with all our respect that which is decidedly
found to be truly the right action, and complete it.
(468) My dear, you have in your possession the stamp of authentication of the universe, which is the
Good Intellect and you are thrice worthy of guiding the whole social structure.
(469) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says-) In this manner the Lord has explained the signs of demonic
characters, and told also the result of those vices.
(470) Now the son of Pandu will ask a question about the inner faith of human beings, to which it is
requested that you may kindly listen by the ears of spiritual attention.
(471) I am going to tell you about it by the grace of my Guru Nivruttinath, just as Sanjaya told it to
the king by the blessings of Bhagwan Vyasa.
(472) If you, the benevolent saints, turn your blissful gaze towards me, I will become as worthly as
you wish.
(473) So, my only request is, you may please give me the blessings of paying attention- so that I,
Dnyandeva says, will be protected by you - my Masters.
इित शीम गव ीतासूपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
