of the study of scripture is a great difficulty for you.
(50) You are trying to grasp the supreme state merely by your faith; but, O the wise one! That is not
so simple!
(51) O the crowned one, it is not advisable to say that "This is our faith", and rely upon it to achieve
liberation. My dear, if a Brahmin continuously lives with the low caste man, does not the Brahmin
become also of the low caste?
(52) Even though there is water of the river Ganges, if it is brought in a pot of liquor, it should not be
accepted. You should think about this.
(53) Sandal-wood is cool, no doubt, but if it is burning, will it not burn your hand, if you hold it?
(54) O the crowned one, if pure gold is put into an urn in which already gold mixed with lesser
metal is boiling and if it is again poured out, will it not be also causing loss, being impure?
(55) Similarly faith as such is very pure, but to whatever types of beings it is attached,
(56) Those beings having been subjected to the beginingless Maya, are moulded in the three
qualities, and therefore faith becomes polluted.
(57) The two qualities out of the three become weak and the remaining one becomes powerful, and
the attitude of those beings change according to that.
(58) Then their mind is moulded according to the attitude, action is committed according to the mind,
and the beings are reborn in next bodies according to the actions committed in this birth.
(59) The seed is destroyed and the tree grows; the tree is destroyed, but it is still maintained in a
small form in the seed. This cycle goes on for millions of years, but the 'die' of caste does not
break.
(60) Similarly innumerable births take place again and again but the accretions of the three qualities
around the souls are never dissolved.
(61) Therefore, you should understand that the faith which every being has is according to these
qualities only.
(62) Supposing by chance, the Sattwic quality is dominant in a person, it gives a call, an invitation to
knowledge to join it but there are two antidotes to this one quality.
(63) When with the help of Sattwa, the faith turns towards achieving the fruit of liberation, how
would the two qualities of Rajas and Tamas sit quietly?
