The people of Sattwic quality worship gods, those of Rajasic quality worship the Yakshas and
Rakshasas (para-human Angles) and those of Tamasic quality worship the dead and the ghosts. (4)
(76) Those whose character is made up of Sattwic quality are generally fond of heavenly life.
(77) They study various sciences, select good systems of ritualistic sacrifices, and they enter the
divine world.
(78) And O great warrior! Those who are made up of Rajasic faith, worship the Rakshasas and
angels who travel through the astral world.
(79) I shall also tell you about Tamasic faith, which is like a heap of sin and very cruel and devoid
of pity.
(80) They kill animals by cruel cunning, and worship the groups of ghosts in cemeteries in ghastly
conditions in the greyish evenings.
(81) Those men are moulded using the essence of Tamas; you may know them as the very home of
Tamasic faith.
(82) In this way, the three kinds of faith are recognized in this world by these different signs; but I
am telling you this with a certain purpose.
(83) And that is, I advise you, O wise one, to take care to develop the Sattwic faith and to drop the
other two faiths.
(84) O Dhananjaya! To a man whom this Sattwic faith protects, does not find the final state of
aloneness, difficult or fearsome.
(85) He may not study Brahmassootras; he may not be expert in various scriptures and he may not
know the salient principles of philosophy.
(86) But there are elderly sages who themselves become the very embodiment of the meaning of
Vedas and Smriti's and give by their own actions, codes of penance to the whole world;
(87) And people of such Sattwic quality follow the footsteps of these elders with faith; and so they
also attain the same fruit like those elders.
(88) For example, if first, one man lights a lamp by gathering necessary material and if another
person just touches his lamps to that lamp, will he be denied the light?
(89) And if one man spends lot of money and builds a house, would not the tenant also who resides
in it get the benefit of that house?
