(90) Also, for example, does a lake quench the thirst of only the man who builds it? Or is the food
only for the cook and not for all members in the house?
(91) What more should I say? Is the Ganges (Godawari, to be exact) meant only for the sage
Gautama (who was instrumental to bring the river down on Earth) and for others it is only a brook
of dirty water?
(92) So, he who faithfully follows the example of the wise persons who perform actions by knowing
their essence, also becomes liberated even if he is not intelligent enough.
अशा तिविहतं घोरं त य ते ये तपो जनाः|
द भाहंकारसंयु ाः कामरागबलाि वताः
The people who are full of hypocrisy and pride, accompanied by desire, attraction and strength,
and who practise fierce penance not sanctioned by the ethics of the moral sciences, (5).
(93) But there are some who do not spoil their tongue even by uttering the names of the sciptures,
and who try to avoid with all their might any contact with the sages who know the sciences.
(94) Who mimicry the conduct of the elders to hoot at them and ridicule the scholars by derogatory
pranks.
(95) Commit most irreligious sins in the fever of their own self-declared importance and their power
and prosperity.
(96) There are also those who even cut the limbs of their parents and elders to offer the flesh and
blood in the sacrificial pit in order to propitiate evil demons;
(97) And they pour these things in the burning pits, or feed the powerful ghosts with them or even
slay their own children in order to please the most cruel of denizens of the ghost-world.
(98) Being slaves to their own devilish determination, they observe fasts for seven days or more in
order to obtain ill - omened boons of those lower Beings.
(99) O Arjuna, these people sow the seeds of self-immolation and violence towards others in the
field of Tamas quality and then that field yields, the same kind of crop!
(100) O Dhananjaya, their plight is as pitiable as of a man who has no arms with which to swim and
does not use a boat, but jumps in the ocean.
(101) Or like a patient who quarrels with the doctor and kicks the medicine and suffers more.
(102) Or their plight is like the plight of a blind man who quarrels with his escort and thus suffers
