difficulties in his own home.
(103) Similar is the tragedy of those who throw away the shelter of scriptures arrogantly and wander
aimlessly in the forest of many sinister attractions.
(104) They do the bidding of their desire, kill those whom the anger wants to kill and even bury me
deep in the pit of suffering, in their own hearts.
कषय तः शरीर थं भूतगाममचेतसः|
मां चैवा तःशरीर थं ताि व यासुरिन यान्
They thus crush and stretch all the elemental parts of earth, water etc. within the body, being
really mindless, and they also harass me residing in their inner body. Know that these people are
confirmed demonic in their nature. (6)
(105) Whatever trouble they give to their own body and others' bodies is indirectly a very acute
trouble to me, the Atman.
(106) Actually we should not touch their aura even by speaking about them, but we have to mention
these sinners in order to know whom we have to discard.
(107) A dead body has to be lifted by our hands in order to take it out of the house; we have to talk
to dirty man in order to tell him to go away; and we have to clean any dirt by hand and then to
wash our hands.
(108) We do not give much importance to dirt because cleansing is the purpose and the expected
thing. Similarly this demon- like nature is described here in order to drop it, to avoid it.
(109) Therefore, O Arjuna, when you will by chance see them, you should immediately remember
me because this sin cannot be washed clean by any other purificatiory action.
(110) Thus only the Sattwic faith should be cared for and nurtured, about which I am going to tell
you presently.
(111) So, one should seek such company and circumstances which will develop the Sattwa. Good
food is very helpful in this respect.
(112) Normally there is no other means except food which develops the desired kind of human
nature.
(113) O the brave one! It is a common experience that even a sober man is influenced immediately if
he drinks wine, and becomes intoxicated.
(114) It is also generally seen that he who always takes sweet liquid diet, suffers from ailments
