caused by gasses and cough; and does anybody having fever etc. get cured only by drinking milk?
(Medicine is necessary there.)
(115) Nectar if taken, saves one from death and poison if taken kills one by pervading all his body.
(116) So, according to the quality of food intake, the elements of the body change and according to
them the inner attitude of a man is nourished.
(117) Just like the water contained in a pot becomes heated when the pot is heated, the elements like
blood, flesh, bones, skin, hair, etc. in the body affect the attitude of the mind.
(118) Therefore, if one takes food with Sattwic quality, Sattwa is more developed in the nature of
man, and by other kinds of foods, namely Rajasic and Tamasic those qualities increase in the
consciousness.
(119) Therefore, we shall now tell what food is Sattwic and what types of foods are of Rajas and
Tamas quality. Please be attentive in listening.
आहार विप सव य ितिवधो भवित िपयः|
य तप तथा दानं तेषां भेदिममं शृणु
All people like food of three types and similarly there is threefold classification of ritualistic
sacrifice, penance and charity. Please listen to their differences thus- (7)
(120) O the brave one! We will show clearly to you how food is divided into three types.
(121) Food is generally prepared to suit the taste of one who is going to dine, and the diner himself
is made up of the three qualities.
(122) The soul, Jeeva, who is the doer and the enjoyer of the fruits of action, is having three types
according to the three qualities and his actions are also of three types.
(123) Therefore his actions namely his food habits are threefold, his sacrifices are threefold and his
penances and charities are also of three kinds.
(124) Out of these, we shall tell you about the types of food, which we referred to earlier. Please
listen. We will explain in detail in a simple way.
आयुःस वबलारो यसुखपीितिववधनाः|
र याः ि न धाः ि थरा ा आहाराः साि वकिपयाः
Foods which help longevity, intelligence, vigour, health, happiness and cheerfulness and which
are sweet, bland, substantial and naturally agreeable to health are liked by the men of Sattwa. (8)
