body and which cause suffering, grief and sickness are liked by Rajasic type of men. (9)
(139) The Rajasic food is so bitter that the greatest poison Kalakoot will be less bitter than that. It is
more hot than calcium and it is very sour.
(140) Salt is profusely used in preparing such food, like water which is added to flour to make a
dhow; and many other salts are mixed in it.
(141) Rajasic man likes such heavily salty food and as he eats hot, chilli etc. articles, he as if
swallows fire directly.
(142) The vapours of such hot things are so hot that a wick of a lamp if put into their upward flow, it
may catch a flame! Such things are demanded by Rajasic man.
(143) The heavy iron bar used for breaking stones is well-known for its hardness, but he eats food
which is harder than this bar, and it hurts the body without making any actual wound.
(144) His food is as dry as ash inside as well as outside, and he likes the sudden shock which this
type of food gives to the mouth.
(145) He becomes more and more satisfied when he eats food while masticating it, and the lower
and upper teeth chatter by its sourness.
(146) He eats articles which are very pungent in taste and over and above, they
are seasoned and treated with mustard powder, which when eaten is very intoxicating and he
sneezes, cries and laments!
(147) Then there are Raitas made so hot that fire may be less burning, which are to his great liking.
(148) Such a man, not being ever satisfied by continuously eating such food, becomes mad for it and
as if fills his belly with fire only.
(149) He experiences such heat in his body, and such breathlessness, that he does not find any
comfort on his bed or even on earth; he demands water again and again, as if he never leaves the
pot away from the mouth.
(150) My dear! These are not food articles. These are like fattening material used to instigate the
black serpents of diseases lying dormant in the bodies of the intakers.
(151) As soon as this nourishment is received all those diseases simultaneously attack the man. Thus
this Rajas food results in suffering only.
(152) O the great archer, in this way I have explained to you the characteristic of Rajas food and its
results also.
