(153) Now I am going to tell you what type of food a man of Tamas quality likes, but perhaps you
may become disgusted by listening to it.
यातयामं गतरसं पूित पयुिषतं च यत्|
उि छ मिप चामे यं भोजनं तामसिपयम्
Food which is insipid, putrid, stale and polluted, which is kept overnight or for more than three
hours, and also is not fit to be used for any good purposes like sacrifice etc. is dear to men of
Tamasic disposition, (10)
(154) My dear, just as a she buffalo eats the fermented mixture of grains, similarly the man of
Tamasic nature does not feel awkward while eating food, spoiled by others and which is also
stale.
(155) The Tamasic man eats without any hesitation, in the evening that food which was prepared in
the morning, and also food prepared today, he may eat tomorrow.
(156) Or he eats half-boiled or over-boiled food, or which has been burnt and also which is not
properly saturated with tasty juices.
(157) Food must be such that it is properly cooked, and the juices in it have been developed in the
process so as to give good taste; but a man of Tamas quality does not care for this.
(158) And if at all by good fortune, he gets such a food, he does not eat it immediately, but keeps it,
like a tiger, for such a long period that it starts giving bad smell.
(159) He eats such food, which is kept to be fermented for days together, which has become
tasteless, which is dried-up and devoid of any moisture or which is rotten and infested with
germs.
(160) Or such food, which has been carelessly eaten partly by children and left in a very shoddy
manner, or food similar to the amalgamated articles of food, when many women sit around a plate
and rub and mix by their hands, all foods together, in a propitiatory ceremony.
(161) When a man of Tamas quality gets such a food, he feels that he has got a good feast, but this
sinner is not satisfied with this.
(162) See the wonder! He eats such articles of bad quality.
(163) Which are completely prohibited by dietary rules and which are not fit to be eaten. He has a
perverted taste for such food.
(164) So, dear Arjuna, this is the food which is liked by a Tamasic man. And he has not to wait even
