for a moment more to suffer from it.
(165) Because, as soon as his mouth touches the food or drink which is impure and prohibited, he
becomes a victim to the sin.
(166) Then what he eats is not a food, but it is the very pain filling his belly.
(167) He is having such horrible experience, just as a man who is being beheaded may feel or a man
entering into a big fire may feel but he goes on suffering like this.
(168) Therefore, if we want to describe the result of Tamasic food, it is nothing else than Tamas
only.
(169) Just as the food has such three categories, similarly Yadnya, (sacrifice) is also of three kinds.
(170) And O the crest-jewel of famous men! First, I am going to tell you about the signs of Pure
sacrifice, which is Sattwic.
अफलाकांि िभय ो िविध ो य इ यते|
य यमेवेित मनः समाधाय स सि वकः
Sattwic sacrifice is that which is performed in a peaceful and satisfied state of mind, which is
considered as a duty only, which is according to the standards laid down in that respect and which is
performed by persons who are not eager to get its fruits. (11)
(171) The mind of a faithful wife is such that she does not have any desire taking roots in it for any
other person except her husband.
(172) The river stops its flow when she meets and merges into the sea or, after realization of Atman,
Vedas become quiet.
(173) Similarly, there are some people who use their intellect only for the realization of Atman and
do not have any selfish pride or desire for the benefit from their rituals etc.
(174) When water is poured exactly at the roots of a plant, it does not turn away but is absorbed by
the roots only.
(175) Similarly they are mentally and physically completely concerned only in the performance of
the sacrifice and have no desire for fruits.
(176) The sacrifice performed by them only with the consideration of duty, and having given up the
desire for fruit, is really a sacrifice, well-performed and accomplished in all respects.
(177) And, just as the eye sees itself with the help of a mirror, or as we see a gem kept on our palm
