Sacrifice which is deprived of any discipline and rules, in which food is not given in charity, no
Mantras are chanted, no money is given to the priest and there is no faith in the mind of the performer,
is called Tamasic one (13)
(189) And as regards the Tamasic sacrifice, the adamant desire is the only reason just as in the
wedding of animals and birds there is no other priest except their sexual desire.
(190) If the wind will not find a way to blow and if death ever waits for some auspicious moment,
or fire will turn back being afraid of anything which should not be burnt;
(191) Then only there will be some control on the behaviour of a Tamasic man. O the great archer,
this man is really uncontrolled.
(192) In his behaviour, there is no care for following the dictates of scriptures. He is having that
much respect for them as a fly which does not hesitate to put its mouth in any food.
(193) Which Brahmin would ever go shamelessly to attend his sacrifice ceremony for receiving
money as religious charity, when Brahmins are really disinterested in worldly things? Just as a
fire is soon destroyed in a great hurricane,
(194) This man in his boastful nature, throws away all his belongings, and just as greedy relatives
rob all things from the house of a childless man, people who have absolutely no respect or faith
of any kind come and loot this man's belongings.
(195) Thus, a sacrifice where such things happen should be known as a Tamasic sacrifice. So said
the Lord Shrikrishna who is the spouse of Laxmi, the goddess of riches.
(196) Then he further said, "Just as the waters of the river Ganges, either become polluted or remain
clean according to the area through which it flows,
(197) Similarly Penance is also threefold though penance as such is only one type of spiritual
endeavour; thus one type of penance causes sin while another may liberate.
(198) O Arjuna, of good mind, if you wish to know how there are three types of penances, you
should first know penance itself.
(199) I shall tell you the nature of penance as a whole, and then I will tell how its characteristics
differ according to the three qualities-
(200) Penance, which is called TAPAS, is in itself of three types, one kind is mental, the second is
physical and the third is pertaining to words or the speech.
देवि जगु पा पूजनं शौचमाजवम्|
