ब चयमिहंसा च शारीरं तप उ यते
Worship of god, Brahmins the twice-born, the Guru, the men of Vedic knowledge, and cleanliness
as well as humility in physical behaviour (actions), celibacy, non-violence- are all belonging to the
physical penance, (1)
(201) Now, listen to the physical kind of penance. The Lord Shankara or the Lord Shrihari whoever
deity you have faith in-
(202) To go to the temple of that deity by undertaking pilgrimage, becomes a crazy habit of the feet
of the devotee, and he is dreaming all day and night about it.
(203) His hands are always eager to decorate the court-yards and precincts of temples, to provide
various articles of worship like sandalwood paste, flowers etc., and to do any work that he may
be asked to do by anybody in that respect.
(204) As soon as he happens to see any idol, image or divine symbol like that of Lord Shiva, his
body automatically prostrates before it like a wooden stick.
(205) He is very fond of doing all types of service respectfully, of Brahmins, who are endowed with
virtues.
(206) He is eager to help those, who are tired by travel, suffering from any ailment or having
calamities befallen on them.
(207) He feels that his body is better to be thoroughly used to its end in the service of parents, who
are the greatest places of pilgrimage.
(208) He is always looking for an opportunity to serve a Master or a Guru whose very meeting
relieves great sufferings of worldly life.
(209) And, O the great warrior! He is making every effort to burn all the dross of the pride of
physical body, etc. by tempering his body, and scorching it in the oven of doing one's own duty.
(210) He is having a great desire to oblige others, because of realization that Atman is dwelling in
every being, and he bows before everybody with that respect, but with determination keeps
proper control over enjoyment of sense objects.
(211) Even he feels that at the time of birth, it was unavoidable to be in touch with a female body,
but from that moment onwards he should observe complete abstinence in respect of women.
(212) He does not dare to trample upon grass or even to cut its blades, thinking that all things are
sacred.
