मनःपसादः सौ य वं मौनमा मिविनगहः|
भाषासंशुि र येत पो मानसमु यते
The Cheerfulness of mind, the mildness, silence, self control and pure feelings are all called as
mental penance. (16)
(225) Just as there are no ripples on the surface of a lake, clouds have left the sky and it is clear; or
serpents have left the garden of the sandalwood trees,
(226) Or, the changes in the shapes of the Moon which are her phases have left the Moon; or anxiety
has left a king, or the Mandar mountain has left the sea (and the sea is calm),
(227) When similar to these, the mind is left by various networks of complicated doubts and is thus
free and pure in its real aloneness,
(228) Or light is without the troublesome heat, or juice is without its heaviness, or the sky is without
its emptines;
(229) Similarly he who achieves his own welfare and sees his own Self which is blissful and as the
limbs already frozen do not feel the cold of ice afterwards, he forgets his own normal self;
(230) And when the mind is beautiful and without any dark spot, like the full moon who may be
devoid of its dark spots and travels gracefully in the sky,
(231) In that state of mind, the cutting pains of maintaining ascetic desirelessness drop away, the
wandering of the mind stops and only the fullness of self-knowledge remains within the mind.
(232) Therefore, the mouth which is to be opened only to discuss the various scriptures, does not
take the reins of speech, but keeps quiet.
(233) As self-realisation has been attained, the quality of the mind is lost, and just as salt is
dissolved in water, the mind is merged into the Atman.
(234) In such a condiion, how can the feelings and attitudes, which run towards objects through the
path of sense organs, ever arise?
(235) Therefore, just as there are no hair on the palm, there are no thoughts about objects in such a
mind, and there is purity of feeling.
(236) O Arjuna, what more should I say? When the mind attains such a state, then that is the right
quality of mental penance.
(237) The Lord said, "Now let this be. I have completely told you the signs of mental penance.
