(238) Thus, the general classification of penance by way of the divisions of the body, the speech and
the mind is explained to you.
(239) Now I shall tell you about penance in its triple manifestation according to the three qualities,
to which please listen with intelligence.
श या परया त ं तप ति िवधं नरैः|
अफलाकाि िभयु ै ः साि वक
ं प रच ते
The penance, which is performed by men is of three types. That which is performed with great
faith with concentrated mind but not expecting fruit, is called Sattwic penance(17)
(240) O the wise one, the very three-fold penance, which I have told you about, should be performed
with great faith, but without hoping for the fruit.
(241) And when it is observed with piety and full belief in god, then it is called Sattwic penance, by
wise-men.
स कारमानपूजाथ तपो द भेन चैव यत्|
िकयते तिदह पो ं राजसं चलमधुवम्
But the penance which is performed with expectation of honour and felicitation or with ulterior
motive with hypocrisy, is called here Rajasic which is not of permanent nature and just has a
temporary effect. (18)
(242) Otherwise also by creating discrimination among people, when penance is performed with a
hope to sit on the high peak of self-importance.
(243) Or with an intention to receive great honours in the social ceremonies, which is not in the lot
of anybody in the three worlds, on occasions of conferences, dinner parties etc.,
(244) Or with a motive to be the recipient of appaluse by the world, and that people should again
and again come at one's door.
(245) Or with a hope to enjoy the honours of all kinds which should not be given to any other
people.
(246) Or efforts are made by giving the polish of outward penance to increase the prestige of
oneself, by adopting artificial attitudes and body and mannerisms of speech and a man thus
deceives others just as an ugly person wears dandy dress, and affects a style to gain respect.
(247) In short bad penance is called Rajasic which is performed with great troubles to oneself,
motivated by extreme desire for money and social status.
