(258) They sit in extreme cold water upto their neck on the rocky banks of river or cut pieces of their
own living flesh.
(259) O Dhananjaya, when the penance is performed by subjecting the body to various kinds of
suffering, its main purpose is to create a mischief for others and destroy them.
(260) Just as a big boulder on the slope of a hill escapes from its hold by its own weight and falls
downwards, being itself shattered to pieces, and crushing anything that happens to be in its way.
(261) The Tamasic man performs this type of penance, himself harassing his own life- element and
by destroying them, for his own victory.
(262) O the crowned one, in short, the penance of this type, resulting in suffering should be known as
Tamasic penance.
(263) Thus, I have shown you clearly how there are three types of penances according to the three
qualities of Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas.
(264) Now, as a natural sequence, I will tell you the three types of "charities."
(265) The charity is also having triple divisions according to the qualities. Please listen to the
Sattwic charity first.
दात यिमित य ानं दीयतेऽनुपका रणे|
देशे काले च पाते च त ानं साि वक
ं मृतम्
That charity is called Sattwic in which something is given as a duty, even to a man who will not
repay it, and that is given to a proper deserving person at proper place and poper time or occasion.
(20)
(266) Thus, whatever is earned by doing our own duty in our occupation, should be given in charity
most respectfully.
(267) Many times, it so happens that we have procured best grade seed, but a good cultivated field
is not available. Similar thing happens in the case of charity.
(268) Or we have a priceless jewel, but good covering ring of gold is wanting and even if both are
there a proper man to wear it is not available.
(269) But if we are lucky, we have a good festival, an intimate friend and enough money, all at the
same time.
(270) Similarly when Sattwa is helpful for giving in charity, we get enough money, proper place and
