time as well as a really deserving man to receive it.
(271) Therefore, we should try to find a proper place like the sacred place of Kuru-kshetra or Kashi
or any other sacred place equal to these.
(272) There, we should select any auspicious day like full-moon day or the last day of the lunar
month, or any other day of spiritually good influence.
(273) There, the man to whom charity is intended to be given should be selected, in such a way that
he is the very image of pure life.
(274) After we get such a pious well - versed Brahmin, who has good knowledge of Vedas and who
is really the ideal of good conduct,
(275) We should give up our sense of ownership and possession upon the money etc.; to be given to
him and it should be offered whole-heartedly, with that one-pointedness of a wife going to meet
her husband;
(276) Or like being free by giving back to the depositor what he had given us for safe-keeping or just
like a servant offers Pan (betel-leaf preparation) to the king;
(277) With similar sense of abandonment and unselfishness, we should give that man whatever is to
be given, like a piece of land etc. and we should not allow any selfishness to rise in our mind in
that action.
(278) And charity should be given to such a man who will never be able to refund it or return our
obligations in any way.
(279) For example, if we give a call to the sky, the sky never answers it or if we see somewhere
else and not in the mirror, the mirror does not give our reflection.
(280) Or a ball thrown into a shallow pool of water does not rebound;
(281) Or grass given to a bull which is left free to roam about as the god's animal, does not give us
any fruit; or respect given to a man who is completely thankless and does not give us anything in
return;
(282) Similarly, without any sense that we are the givers and the recipient is being obliged by us, we
should give with a clear understanding that nothing in return is going to come back to us.
(283) O the brave Arjuna, when anything is given with all these good things and conditions
prevailing, it should be considered the best charity among all.
(284) And the right place, the right time, the deserving Brahmin,- when all these are together, that
