city square,
(295) In menacingly ominous bad evening, or if stolen money is given at night,
(296) To the sooth-sayers, singers, court-singers, jugglers, gamblers or prostitutes or such people
who are the very images of deception.
(297) To some who have beautiful body and are dancing in drunken ecstacy and to them whose false
flattery is ringing in the ears of the listeners.
(298) In addition there is good smell of flowers and fragrant articles in the atmosphere which has
turned one into a Vetala (a Satan) of greed incarnate.
(299) In such a state of mind and the surroundings when money or property which is robbed from all
quarters of the earth, is given like a dinner party given by a man who is a ‘Mang’–
(300) When such charity is given, I call it the Tamasic charity. There is something else which takes
place by such turn of luck, that
(301) Sometimes by the little insects carving wood create a random pattern, which resembles a letter
or sometimes when a crow perches on a little branch, it falls down. Similarly the Tamasic man
luckily gets the benefit of auspcious time and sacred place.
(302) And a deserving man also comes along to receive it, if he is a bit attracted to money.
(303) In that case, this Tamasic man has no faith in his mind, does not pay respects to that guest, does
not welcome him with water etc. nor allows anybody to do so.
(304) He even does not offer a seat to the guest, not to speak about offering him any welcoming
refreshments etc. O Arjuna, only Tamasic persons can behave in such an insulting way, devoid of
ettiquettes.
(305) If at all he gives him something, it is in an attitude of scorn as if trying to get rid of a beggar or
a creditor, and he is uttering foul words continuously insulting him.
(306) And O the crowned one, when such charity is given, the giver afterwards repeats what he has
given and by speaking insulting words he puts that man in an ackward position.
(307) But let this be. Whatever is given in this way is called Tamasic charity.
(308) Thus I have told you all the three types of charity with the names also.
(309) But you may wisely think that since you very well know that-
