(310) The only action which liberates us from this worldly life is Sattwic action, then why other
types of actions which are bad should at all be described?
(311) But, just as without evicting the ghost the hidden treasure cannot be had or just as a wick of
lamp is not kindled without first experiencing a little smoke;
(312) Similarly, how can the work of removing the Rajasic and Tamasic covers around the Sattwic
actions be called an undesirable action?
(313) We have told you that all the actions as such are full of the three qualities, right from the faith
upto the charity.
(314) We have no intention to tell all the tree types, as a matter of fact, but in order to make the
picture clear about what is Sattwic, we have simply touched the others in short.
(315) That which is caught on both sides by two things can be clearly seen only when those two are
removed, just as we know what is dawn or evening when we leave the day and night out of our
consideration.
(316) Similarly by destruction of Rajas and Tamas, the remaining Sattwa is clearly recognized.
(317) Thus, I have described Rajas and Tamas only to make you aware of them, discard them and
take the best advantage of the Sattwa only.
(318) If you perform actions like sacrifices, rituals etc. by abiding by only the Sattwa quality, you
will have experience of the self knowledge like a fruit kept on your palm.
(319) If the Sun is showing everything, what is there that we will not see! Thus when Sattwic action
is performed, what fruit is there which it will not give?
(320) Thus Sattwa has the power to give you any desired fruit, but the final liberation of the soul into
the Brahman is quite different.
(321) And with the help of Sattwa, one easily steps into the state of liberation or enters the town
called 'liberation'.
(322) Though gold is pure and its value is fifteen rupees per "tola", it is used as a valid current coin
only when the king's seal is imprinted on it.
(323) Though clean, cool and scented water is very soothing, the sacredness is added to it only when
it is from a sacred place of pilgrimage.
(324) Though a river may be quite wide, it can meet the sea only when it joins a great river.
