(325) Similarly, it is the Sattwic action which is really helpful to a man to reach liberation and there
are no difficulties in his way and that is the speciality of it."
(326) As soon as Arjuna listened to this, his eagerness could not be contained within himself and he
asked the Lord-"O God! Please be kind and tell me all about it."
(327) Then the greatest among the kind people, Lord Shrikrishna said- "All right! Please listen to the
explanation as to how the man of Sattwic quality sees the jewel which is called Liberation."
ॐ त सिदित िनदशो ब णि तिवधः मृतः|
बा णा तेन वेदा य ा िविहताः पुरा
OM, TAT, SAT - this has been declared from ancient times, as the threefold appellation of the
absolute Brahman (which is Truth, Consciousness and Bliss solidified). By that were defined the
Brahmanas, and the Vedas as well as the Sacrifices at the cosmic dawn. (23)
(328) So, the beginningless absolute Brahman, which is the primary source of this world and also its
final resting place is having one name with three syllables.
(329) Actually it is nameless and birthless but in the night of ignorance of Maya, this is only a sign
given to it by Vedas in order that we may recognize it.
(330) When a child is born it has no name, but we name it afterwards and when we call it by that
name, it gives response and gets up.
(331) When people being exhausted by the troubles and tribulations of worldly life come to Brahman
to complain and pray for relief, the Brahman gives the response to them and that is this word, viz.
'AUM'.
(332) The Veda has compassionately found out a Mantra, by which the silence of Brahman should be
broken and non-duality should be attainable through duality.
(333) Then only by using this one-syllabled Mantra, Brahman can be entreated to become manifest
before us though it is invisible.
(334) But this Mantra is properly understood by those who are, in the purity of their consciousness
seated on the same level as the god Brahma, in the abstract city of Upanishads on the highest
peack of the mountain of Vedas.
(335) Not only this, but by uttering this word only once, the God Brahma got the power to create this
whole nature.
(336) O the great warrior Arjuna, before the beginning of the creation, Brahma, the god was alone
