without any wisdom and was so confused,
(337) That he did not recognize me, the Lord also, and could not create anything at all; but he
became quite able only by this one name.
(338) By meditating on the meaning of this name and by respecting these three letters or utterances),
God Brahma attained the power to create the universe.
(339) Then he created the Brahmins and by ordering them to follow the Vedas He gave them the
Yadnya, the sacrificial rituals as a means for their existence.
(340) Then how many creatures he brought into existence, is not possible to count, and for their
subsistence, He gave them the rights of the three worlds.
(341) The Lord said to Arjuna further- "Please listen to the nature of that Mantra by which Brahma
the god, the creator, was able to bring into existence this wonderful universe.
(342) Thus, Pranava or 'AUM' is the king of all Mantras and 'Tat' is the second part while "Sat" is
the third part of this Mantra.
(343) Thus this is the triple name OM TAT SAT for Brahman. You should enjoy the fragrance of this
sweet and beautiful flower, which is the essence of the meaning of the Upanishads.
(344) When Sattwic action is done by being united with this name, it makes the 'liberation of
absolute aloneness', a household servant of the man.
(345) My dear, perhaps we may luckily get ornaments made of camphor! But it is very difficult to
know how to wear them!
(346) Similarly, even if we perform a Sattwic action, and utter the name of Brahman, and still do not
know for what purpose it is to be applied, then–
(347) Just as our merit which is in our stock is lost, if we do not know how to welcome saints who
have come to us in a large number;
(348) Or just as with a strong desire to don golden ornaments one also puts on the joints of lesser
metal together with the gold around one's neck;
(349) Similarly, the name of Brahman is being uttered, Sattwic action is being done by hands but if
we do not know for what pupose it is meant, then all this will be in vain.
(350) My dear, there is food and a child is hungry but if it does not know how to eat the food, it is
but natural that it will be hungry only.
