(351) Or, O the brave one, even if oil, wick and fire are at hand, if we do not know how to utilize
them together, we will not be getting light!
(352) Similarly, at the right time good action is being performed, we also remember the sacred
Mantra, but if we do not know its purpose, all will be futile.
(353) Therefore, please listen to the way in which this triple name of Brahman is to be applied or
utilized in our life.
त मादोिम युदा य य दानतपःिकयाः|
पवत ते िवधानो ाः सततं ब वािदनाम्
Therefore, actions of the knowers of Brahman are always performed according to the rules of the
scriptures, in the matter of Yadnya, charity and penance, by first uttering the word AUM! (24)
(354) The three letters of this sacred name should be used in the beginning, the middle and the end of
every action.
(355) By this method only those who know Brahman have achieved that state.
(356) As they are having faith in the performance of right action due to their study of the scriptures,
they do not remain without the right performance of Yadnyas, etc., or reaching unity with the
Brahman.
(357) But first they establish well in their mind through meditation the AUM, and then they utter it by
their speech.
(358) Then with the help of that concentration of AUM and its utterance, they proceed to the
performance of Action.
(359) AUM should be resorted to at the beginning of action, like the taking of help of a lamp in the
dark, or of a strong man in a jungle.
(360) Those knowers of Brahman (in the form of Vedas) perform sacrifices by putting in the fire, the
pure things earned through righteous activities, through the help of the Brahmin priests, so as to
propitiate their dear deities.
(361) By being very careful they perform sacrifices in the three kinds of fires at three times a day,
following strictly the rules laid down in the relevent scriptures.
(362) Or, by the very acceptance of the duty of peforming such sacrifices, they give up the
impediments and bondages of the worldly life which they do not like anymore.
