(375) The salt gets dissolved into water but there is still salty taste to the water. Similarly the duality
remains because the doer thinks that 'he' has offered the action to Brahman.
(376) And so long as this duality persists, the fear of bondage of worldly life does not end. Vedas
which are the mouth of the God have been declaring this with full force.
(377) Therefore, in order that the Brahman which appears to be separate from the doer because of
his concept of the doer-ship, should be experienced in the Unity of the Atman, the word "SAT" is
used.
(378) The action- which has been tranformed into Brahman by the words OM and TAT, is called
"Auspicious" etc. and is praised.
(379) The word SAT is used for that auspicious or praiseworthly action. Now I shall further explain
that word SAT. Please listen.
स ावे साधुभावे च सिद येत पयु यते|
पश ते कमिण तथा स छ दः पाथ यु यते
The name of God as SAT is used in the sense of Truth and goodness and the word SAT is also
used in the case of praiseworthy act, O Partha! (26)
(380) By this word 'Sat' the coin of the manifest universe which is the product of ignorance is melted
and the real gold of 'SAT' as Brahman becomes evident.
(381) This reality which is called 'SAT' does not change by time and space; and is as it is, eternally
without a break.
(382) Now, this apparent world being impermanent, is not having any place in that SAT, and that
SAT can be recognized only by realization of Atman.
(383) The action which is made auspicious by the SAT principle, becomes united with Brahman and
by the self knowledge of unity, it is perceived everywhere as Brahman only.
(384) Thus by OM and TAT, the action becomes one with Brahman and being meged, remains
simply and wholly as SAT only.
(385) So one should take into consideration the inner utilization of the word 'SAT' - so said the Lord
Shriranga! (Dnyanadev says- This is not my invention. It is what the Lord said.)
(386) He further says- "But if I say so, there is the error of thinking that the Lord has some duality in
Him. Therefore, one should decidedly take this opinion to be of the Lord Himself.
