(387) The Lord said- "Now listen to one other way in which this word 'SAT' is utilized, as helpful
to Sattwic action."
(388) When good actions are being done by men according to their own standards and capacities,
sometimes there appear some defects in them.
(389) Then just as, when some limb of a body is defective, the body does not function normally or
just as a chariot without wheels does not run.
(390) Similarly a good 'SAT' action becomes sometimes defective, due to some lacunae.
(391) In such a case the word 'SAT' helps the two words 'AUM' and 'TAT', in making again that
action perfectly auspicious.
(392) It destroys the badness of the action, and then by its own essential power, turns it into a perfect
one.
(393) Just as a good medicine cures a patient of his ailment and makes him again healthy, this 'Sat'
removes the defect in the action.
(394) Or due to some mistake, action breaks the rules about right way of performance and turns to a
wrong path.
(395) It so happens that those who are walking straight suddenly go the wrong way and sometimes
even an expert becomes confused. Thus, what may not happen in the course of events? Anything
may happen.
(396) Therefore, when like this, suddenly action becomes bersirk and is then likely to be defamed as
wrong action;
(397) If the word 'SAT' is wisely used, even more so than the words 'AUM' and 'TAT', it gives that
action the required purity.
(398) Like the friction of the magic stone 'Parees' to the iron, or like the meeting of a brook with the
sacred Ganges or like the rain of nectar for a dead man;
(399) Similarly, O the great warrior Arjuna, the use of the word SAT is purifying to the defective or
bad action. Such is the greatness of this word!
(400) When having taken into consideration the importance of this word as explained, you will
regard this word 'SAT', you will know for yourself that this is itself Brahman.
(401) Just see now in short - This uttering the words OM TAT SAT takes you to that supreme state
from which all this manifest world receives illumination.
