An oblation offered, a gift given, a penance practised, and any deed performed, when performed
without faith- all amount to nothing, as 'Asat' or not good and it is of no avail here or hereafter in the
other world. (28)
(414) But if disregarding this facility and arrangement, leaving the help of faith aside and increasing
the pride of adamant desires,
(415) Crores of horse-sacrifices may be completed, the whole earth full of jewels may be given in
charity and austere penances may be gone through for thousands of years, even standing on one
toe-
(416) Or lakes and water reservoirs may be built as large as sea, but all these actions are simply
futile.
(417) Just as rainfall on stones, oblations offered not in the fire but in the ashes, or embrace of a
shadow,
(418) Or a slap given to the sky - are all useless, all these activities are in vain, my dear Arjuna!
(419) We do not get oil if stones are crushed in a pulverizer, nor do we get oil cake. Similarly all
these actions become futile and only poverty becomes our lot.
(420) If we take with us a piece of tile thinking that it is a coin, and if we go in the market of the
home town or any other town, we will not get anything by selling it, but may die of hunger.
(421) Similarly by doing any actions like this we will not get any enjoyments in this world nor can
we expect anything pleasurable in the other world.
(422) Therefore, if we do anything without faith in Brahman, that is simply an unnecessary trouble,
in respect of this or the other world.
(423) Thus said the Lord Shikishna, who is the lion destroying the elephants of sins, the Sun who
dissipates the darkness of triple calamities that befall a man in this life, who is the lover of
goddess Laxmi, and who is the greatest among the bravest men.
(424) At that time, Arjuna was so lost in the blissful state of Atman, as if Moon herself becomes
dissolved in her own light!
(425) Really, the war is like a ‘groce’! He uses the sharp ends of arrows as measures and fills these
measures by flesh and thus does a short work of finishing human life–
(426) And the most wounderful thing is how could Arjuna in such a hard time be able to enjoy the
bliss of inner self! Nobody else in the world is so fortunate as Arjuna!
