(174) Some become completely peaceful while listening about this, and their identity with their body
is lost. Some become one with the spirit by direct experience.
(175) This is like the rivers which flow and enter into the sea, do not return because they cannot be
accomodated in the sea.
(176) Similarly the minds of great sages become united with it when they merge into it, and they
never come back to rebirth, once they have a glimpse of it.
देही िन यमव योऽयं देहे सव य भारत|
त मा सवािण भूतािन न वं शोिचतुमहिस
O Bharata, the Atman who dwells in the body of all the beings can never be slain. Therefore, you
do not deserve to lament about all the beings. (30)
(177) You should know that the spirit which is everywhere in the bodies of all the beings and cannot
be killed even if one tries it, is the all-pervading one spirit.
(178) It is by his will that these beings come into existence and go. Then tell me whether you should
grieve in this situation.
(179) Really, O Partha, I cannot understand why you should not realize it without my telling so; but
take it from me, that in many ways, it is wrong on your part to grieve about this.
वधममिप चावे य न िवकि पतुमहिस|
ध याि यु ा छेयोऽ य ितय य न िव ते
Besides, considering your own duty also, you should not waver, because there is nothing more
beneficial for a Kshatriya, than a war for protection of Religion. (31)
(180) Why are you not still thinking rightly? What are you brooding about? You have forgotten your
own duty by which one gets salvation!
(181) Let any calamity befall on these Kauravas, or let any disaster fall upon you, or let even the
total destruction of this world take place!
(182) Even then your own ordained duty should never be given up. Do you think that your feeling of
pity is going to give you real liberation?
(183) O Arjuna, though your heart has become very soft by the force of pity, this is not proper at this
time of war.
(184) You see, the cow’s milk is very beneficial for health but it is not advised for a man suffering
