qualities, and therefore faith becomes polluted.
(57) The two qualities out of the three become weak and the remaining one becomes powerful, and
the attitude of those beings change according to that.
(58) Then their mind is moulded according to the attitude, action is committed according to the mind,
and the beings are reborn in next bodies according to the actions committed in this birth.
(59) The seed is destroyed and the tree grows; the tree is destroyed, but it is still maintained in a
small form in the seed. This cycle goes on for millions of years, but the 'die' of caste does not
break.
(60) Similarly innumerable births take place again and again but the accretions of the three qualities
around the souls are never dissolved.
(61) Therefore, you should understand that the faith which every being has is according to these
qualities only.
(62) Supposing by chance, the Sattwic quality is dominant in a person, it gives a call, an invitation to
knowledge to join it but there are two antidotes to this one quality.
(63) When with the help of Sattwa, the faith turns towards achieving the fruit of liberation, how
would the two qualities of Rajas and Tamas sit quietly?
(64) The Rajas destroys the strength of Sattwa, and the same faith, when Rajas reaches its unlimited
height, becomes the sweeper, who goes on sweeping Karma.
(65) Then if the fire of Tamas is flared-up, the same faith reaches such a low state that it runs after
any objects.
स वान पा सव य श ा भवित भारत|
श ामयोऽयं पु षो यो य छ ः स एव सः
O the son of the Bharat lineage! The faith of all people is according to their essential quality. This
Purusha or man is the embodiment of faith only. He is as his faith is. (3)
(66) O the wise one! Know that there is no faith anywhere in the whole world of Beings, which is
devoid of these qualities.
(67) Therefore again, though faith is only one natural thing, it is divided according to the three
qualities of Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas.
(68) For example, water is one single element, but as poison it kills, in pepper it is pungent, and in
sugarcane, it is sweet.
