(82) In this way, the three kinds of faith are recognized in this world by these different signs; but I
am telling you this with a certain purpose.
(83) And that is, I advise you, O wise one, to take care to develop the Sattwic faith and to drop the
other two faiths.
(84) O Dhananjaya! To a man whom this Sattwic faith protects, does not find the final state of
aloneness, difficult or fearsome.
(85) He may not study Brahmassootras; he may not be expert in various scriptures and he may not
know the salient principles of philosophy.
(86) But there are elderly sages who themselves become the very embodiment of the meaning of
Vedas and Smriti's and give by their own actions, codes of penance to the whole world;
(87) And people of such Sattwic quality follow the footsteps of these elders with faith; and so they
also attain the same fruit like those elders.
(88) For example, if first, one man lights a lamp by gathering necessary material and if another
person just touches his lamps to that lamp, will he be denied the light?
(89) And if one man spends lot of money and builds a house, would not the tenant also who resides
in it get the benefit of that house?
(90) Also, for example, does a lake quench the thirst of only the man who builds it? Or is the food
only for the cook and not for all members in the house?
(91) What more should I say? Is the Ganges (Godawari, to be exact) meant only for the sage
Gautama (who was instrumental to bring the river down on Earth) and for others it is only a brook
of dirty water?
(92) So, he who faithfully follows the example of the wise persons who perform actions by knowing
their essence, also becomes liberated even if he is not intelligent enough.
अशा तिविहतं घोरं त य ते ये तपो जनाः|
द भाहंकारसंयु ाः कामरागबलाि वताः
The people who are full of hypocrisy and pride, accompanied by desire, attraction and strength,
and who practise fierce penance not sanctioned by the ethics of the moral sciences, (5).
(93) But there are some who do not spoil their tongue even by uttering the names of the sciptures,
and who try to avoid with all their might any contact with the sages who know the sciences.
(94) Who mimicry the conduct of the elders to hoot at them and ridicule the scholars by derogatory
