pranks.
(95) Commit most irreligious sins in the fever of their own self-declared importance and their power
and prosperity.
(96) There are also those who even cut the limbs of their parents and elders to offer the flesh and
blood in the sacrificial pit in order to propitiate evil demons;
(97) And they pour these things in the burning pits, or feed the powerful ghosts with them or even
slay their own children in order to please the most cruel of denizens of the ghost-world.
(98) Being slaves to their own devilish determination, they observe fasts for seven days or more in
order to obtain ill - omened boons of those lower Beings.
(99) O Arjuna, these people sow the seeds of self-immolation and violence towards others in the
field of Tamas quality and then that field yields, the same kind of crop!
(100) O Dhananjaya, their plight is as pitiable as of a man who has no arms with which to swim and
does not use a boat, but jumps in the ocean.
(101) Or like a patient who quarrels with the doctor and kicks the medicine and suffers more.
(102) Or their plight is like the plight of a blind man who quarrels with his escort and thus suffers
difficulties in his own home.
(103) Similar is the tragedy of those who throw away the shelter of scriptures arrogantly and wander
aimlessly in the forest of many sinister attractions.
(104) They do the bidding of their desire, kill those whom the anger wants to kill and even bury me
deep in the pit of suffering, in their own hearts.
कषय तः शरीर थं भूतगाममचेतसः|
मां चैवा तःशरीर थं ताि व यासुरिन यान्
They thus crush and stretch all the elemental parts of earth, water etc. within the body, being
really mindless, and they also harass me residing in their inner body. Know that these people are
confirmed demonic in their nature. (6)
(105) Whatever trouble they give to their own body and others' bodies is indirectly a very acute
trouble to me, the Atman.
(106) Actually we should not touch their aura even by speaking about them, but we have to mention
these sinners in order to know whom we have to discard.
