(107) A dead body has to be lifted by our hands in order to take it out of the house; we have to talk
to dirty man in order to tell him to go away; and we have to clean any dirt by hand and then to
wash our hands.
(108) We do not give much importance to dirt because cleansing is the purpose and the expected
thing. Similarly this demon- like nature is described here in order to drop it, to avoid it.
(109) Therefore, O Arjuna, when you will by chance see them, you should immediately remember
me because this sin cannot be washed clean by any other purificatiory action.
(110) Thus only the Sattwic faith should be cared for and nurtured, about which I am going to tell
you presently.
(111) So, one should seek such company and circumstances which will develop the Sattwa. Good
food is very helpful in this respect.
(112) Normally there is no other means except food which develops the desired kind of human
nature.
(113) O the brave one! It is a common experience that even a sober man is influenced immediately if
he drinks wine, and becomes intoxicated.
(114) It is also generally seen that he who always takes sweet liquid diet, suffers from ailments
caused by gasses and cough; and does anybody having fever etc. get cured only by drinking milk?
(Medicine is necessary there.)
(115) Nectar if taken, saves one from death and poison if taken kills one by pervading all his body.
(116) So, according to the quality of food intake, the elements of the body change and according to
them the inner attitude of a man is nourished.
(117) Just like the water contained in a pot becomes heated when the pot is heated, the elements like
blood, flesh, bones, skin, hair, etc. in the body affect the attitude of the mind.
(118) Therefore, if one takes food with Sattwic quality, Sattwa is more developed in the nature of
man, and by other kinds of foods, namely Rajasic and Tamasic those qualities increase in the
consciousness.
(119) Therefore, we shall now tell what food is Sattwic and what types of foods are of Rajas and
Tamas quality. Please be attentive in listening.
आहार विप सव य ितिवधो भवित िपयः|
य तप तथा दानं तेषां भेदिममं शृणु
