All people like food of three types and similarly there is threefold classification of ritualistic
sacrifice, penance and charity. Please listen to their differences thus- (7)
(120) O the brave one! We will show clearly to you how food is divided into three types.
(121) Food is generally prepared to suit the taste of one who is going to dine, and the diner himself
is made up of the three qualities.
(122) The soul, Jeeva, who is the doer and the enjoyer of the fruits of action, is having three types
according to the three qualities and his actions are also of three types.
(123) Therefore his actions namely his food habits are threefold, his sacrifices are threefold and his
penances and charities are also of three kinds.
(124) Out of these, we shall tell you about the types of food, which we referred to earlier. Please
listen. We will explain in detail in a simple way.
आयुःस वबलारो यसुखपीितिववधनाः|
र याः ि न धाः ि थरा ा आहाराः साि वकिपयाः
Foods which help longevity, intelligence, vigour, health, happiness and cheerfulness and which
are sweet, bland, substantial and naturally agreeable to health are liked by the men of Sattwa. (8)
(125) The enjoyer, the Jeeva, who is fortunately having inclination towards the Sattwa quality has
special liking for sweet foods, and
(126) Those food articles which are themselves naturally succulent, sweet and ripe.
(127) These articles are not shapeles. They are soft to the touch. They are succulent and palatable.
They are tasty.
(128) These articles are full of juice, soft outwardly also, and the watery content is properly made
juicy by process of heating.
(129) These articles are small in size but very good in effect, just like the few words of the Guru
which are great in their meaning. They also give great satisfaction even though they are small.
(130) These articles are as sweet inside as they are for the taste. Such food articles are very much
liked by people of Sattwic quality.
(131) Know that the Sattwic food is of these signs or qualities, which always give new protection to
life.
(132) When the 'cloud' of such Sattwic juice pours itself in the body the 'river' of our life goes on
