becoming fully flooded.
(133) O the wise one! Just as the Sun is the cause of the day becoming bright, so, such kind of food
becomes the cause of development of the Sattwic quality.
(134) This type of food is the support of mental and physical strength. If such food is taken, how can
diseases find place in the body?
(135) When the food is of such Sattwic quality, the body is fortunate enough to enjoy good health.
(136) By such food it is possible to give happiness to others and to get the same; and joy becomes
enhanced nicely.
(137) When such food is properly digested it proves to be wholesome and health - giving both to the
body and the mind.
(138) Now, as this is the right occasion. I shall tell you about the food which is liked by a man of
Rajas quality.
क व ललवणा यु णती ण िवदािहनः|
आहारा राजस ये ा दुःखशोकामयपदाः
Foods which are bitter, acids, salty, overhot, pungent, dry and creating a burning sensation in the
body and which cause suffering, grief and sickness are liked by Rajasic type of men. (9)
(139) The Rajasic food is so bitter that the greatest poison Kalakoot will be less bitter than that. It is
more hot than calcium and it is very sour.
(140) Salt is profusely used in preparing such food, like water which is added to flour to make a
dhow; and many other salts are mixed in it.
(141) Rajasic man likes such heavily salty food and as he eats hot, chilli etc. articles, he as if
swallows fire directly.
(142) The vapours of such hot things are so hot that a wick of a lamp if put into their upward flow, it
may catch a flame! Such things are demanded by Rajasic man.
(143) The heavy iron bar used for breaking stones is well-known for its hardness, but he eats food
which is harder than this bar, and it hurts the body without making any actual wound.
(144) His food is as dry as ash inside as well as outside, and he likes the sudden shock which this
type of food gives to the mouth.
(145) He becomes more and more satisfied when he eats food while masticating it, and the lower
