and upper teeth chatter by its sourness.
(146) He eats articles which are very pungent in taste and over and above, they
are seasoned and treated with mustard powder, which when eaten is very intoxicating and he
sneezes, cries and laments!
(147) Then there are Raitas made so hot that fire may be less burning, which are to his great liking.
(148) Such a man, not being ever satisfied by continuously eating such food, becomes mad for it and
as if fills his belly with fire only.
(149) He experiences such heat in his body, and such breathlessness, that he does not find any
comfort on his bed or even on earth; he demands water again and again, as if he never leaves the
pot away from the mouth.
(150) My dear! These are not food articles. These are like fattening material used to instigate the
black serpents of diseases lying dormant in the bodies of the intakers.
(151) As soon as this nourishment is received all those diseases simultaneously attack the man. Thus
this Rajas food results in suffering only.
(152) O the great archer, in this way I have explained to you the characteristic of Rajas food and its
results also.
(153) Now I am going to tell you what type of food a man of Tamas quality likes, but perhaps you
may become disgusted by listening to it.
यातयामं गतरसं पूित पयुिषतं च यत्|
उि छ मिप चामे यं भोजनं तामसिपयम्
Food which is insipid, putrid, stale and polluted, which is kept overnight or for more than three
hours, and also is not fit to be used for any good purposes like sacrifice etc. is dear to men of
Tamasic disposition, (10)
(154) My dear, just as a she buffalo eats the fermented mixture of grains, similarly the man of
Tamasic nature does not feel awkward while eating food, spoiled by others and which is also
stale.
(155) The Tamasic man eats without any hesitation, in the evening that food which was prepared in
the morning, and also food prepared today, he may eat tomorrow.
(156) Or he eats half-boiled or over-boiled food, or which has been burnt and also which is not
properly saturated with tasty juices.
