(157) Food must be such that it is properly cooked, and the juices in it have been developed in the
process so as to give good taste; but a man of Tamas quality does not care for this.
(158) And if at all by good fortune, he gets such a food, he does not eat it immediately, but keeps it,
like a tiger, for such a long period that it starts giving bad smell.
(159) He eats such food, which is kept to be fermented for days together, which has become
tasteless, which is dried-up and devoid of any moisture or which is rotten and infested with
germs.
(160) Or such food, which has been carelessly eaten partly by children and left in a very shoddy
manner, or food similar to the amalgamated articles of food, when many women sit around a plate
and rub and mix by their hands, all foods together, in a propitiatory ceremony.
(161) When a man of Tamas quality gets such a food, he feels that he has got a good feast, but this
sinner is not satisfied with this.
(162) See the wonder! He eats such articles of bad quality.
(163) Which are completely prohibited by dietary rules and which are not fit to be eaten. He has a
perverted taste for such food.
(164) So, dear Arjuna, this is the food which is liked by a Tamasic man. And he has not to wait even
for a moment more to suffer from it.
(165) Because, as soon as his mouth touches the food or drink which is impure and prohibited, he
becomes a victim to the sin.
(166) Then what he eats is not a food, but it is the very pain filling his belly.
(167) He is having such horrible experience, just as a man who is being beheaded may feel or a man
entering into a big fire may feel but he goes on suffering like this.
(168) Therefore, if we want to describe the result of Tamasic food, it is nothing else than Tamas
only.
(169) Just as the food has such three categories, similarly Yadnya, (sacrifice) is also of three kinds.
(170) And O the crest-jewel of famous men! First, I am going to tell you about the signs of Pure
sacrifice, which is Sattwic.
अफलाकांि िभय ो िविध ो य इ यते|
य यमेवेित मनः समाधाय स सि वकः
