Sattwic sacrifice is that which is performed in a peaceful and satisfied state of mind, which is
considered as a duty only, which is according to the standards laid down in that respect and which is
performed by persons who are not eager to get its fruits. (11)
(171) The mind of a faithful wife is such that she does not have any desire taking roots in it for any
other person except her husband.
(172) The river stops its flow when she meets and merges into the sea or, after realization of Atman,
Vedas become quiet.
(173) Similarly, there are some people who use their intellect only for the realization of Atman and
do not have any selfish pride or desire for the benefit from their rituals etc.
(174) When water is poured exactly at the roots of a plant, it does not turn away but is absorbed by
the roots only.
(175) Similarly they are mentally and physically completely concerned only in the performance of
the sacrifice and have no desire for fruits.
(176) The sacrifice performed by them only with the consideration of duty, and having given up the
desire for fruit, is really a sacrifice, well-performed and accomplished in all respects.
(177) And, just as the eye sees itself with the help of a mirror, or as we see a gem kept on our palm
in the light of a lamp.
(178) Or just as when the Sun rises, we can see our way clearly; similarly, by carefully seeing
clearly what are the directions of Vedas and the scriptures–
(179) And by collecting all the utensils and articles useful for the sacifice, and arranging them
properly, as if placed by the god, the creator, himself for the sacrifice;
(180) And if all the articles are properly placed in their respective places, just as ornaments
properly used for each limb of the body,
(181) What more should I describe? Then the very Goddess of sacrifice, ornamented, seems to have
become manifest in the form of sacrificial ritual.
(182) So, when the sacrifice is so accomplished in all respects in which there is no iota of selfish
desire for any self-importance.
(183) And just like a Tulsi plant though given water by a small water source does not give flowers,
fruit or even a shade.
(184) Or in short, when the sacrifice is so performed without attachment or hope for its fruit, that
