sacrifice should be considered as of Sattwic quality.
अिभसंधाय तु फलं द भाथमिप चैव यत्|
इ यते भरतशे तं य ं िवि राजसम्
O the great among Bharatas! When the sacrifice is performed with an eye towards its fruit, or
with hypocrisy, just to boast about it, know it to be Rajasic. (12)
(185) O the great warrior! Now if a sacrifice is done in the same maner as described above, but it is
having a hidden selfish end, just like when a king is invited to attend somebody's ancestral rites,
(186) The inviters think that if the king attends, much help it would be for them, they will be famous
and there will not be any shortage of funds for the rites.
(187) Similarly, when there is a desire to attain the whole heaven, and the performer hopes to be
very famous by the sacrifice,
(188) O Partha, when the sacrifice is performed only to get its fruit and to boast about it and is to get
social importance then that sacrifice is of Rajas quality.
िविधहीनमसृ ा नं म तहीनमदि णम्|
श ािवरिहतं य ं तामसं प रच ते
Sacrifice which is deprived of any discipline and rules, in which food is not given in charity, no
Mantras are chanted, no money is given to the priest and there is no faith in the mind of the performer,
is called Tamasic one (13)
(189) And as regards the Tamasic sacrifice, the adamant desire is the only reason just as in the
wedding of animals and birds there is no other priest except their sexual desire.
(190) If the wind will not find a way to blow and if death ever waits for some auspicious moment,
or fire will turn back being afraid of anything which should not be burnt;
(191) Then only there will be some control on the behaviour of a Tamasic man. O the great archer,
this man is really uncontrolled.
(192) In his behaviour, there is no care for following the dictates of scriptures. He is having that
much respect for them as a fly which does not hesitate to put its mouth in any food.
(193) Which Brahmin would ever go shamelessly to attend his sacrifice ceremony for receiving
money as religious charity, when Brahmins are really disinterested in worldly things? Just as a
fire is soon destroyed in a great hurricane,
