(194) This man in his boastful nature, throws away all his belongings, and just as greedy relatives
rob all things from the house of a childless man, people who have absolutely no respect or faith
of any kind come and loot this man's belongings.
(195) Thus, a sacrifice where such things happen should be known as a Tamasic sacrifice. So said
the Lord Shrikrishna who is the spouse of Laxmi, the goddess of riches.
(196) Then he further said, "Just as the waters of the river Ganges, either become polluted or remain
clean according to the area through which it flows,
(197) Similarly Penance is also threefold though penance as such is only one type of spiritual
endeavour; thus one type of penance causes sin while another may liberate.
(198) O Arjuna, of good mind, if you wish to know how there are three types of penances, you
should first know penance itself.
(199) I shall tell you the nature of penance as a whole, and then I will tell how its characteristics
differ according to the three qualities-
(200) Penance, which is called TAPAS, is in itself of three types, one kind is mental, the second is
physical and the third is pertaining to words or the speech.
देवि जगु पा पूजनं शौचमाजवम्|
ब चयमिहंसा च शारीरं तप उ यते
Worship of god, Brahmins the twice-born, the Guru, the men of Vedic knowledge, and cleanliness
as well as humility in physical behaviour (actions), celibacy, non-violence- are all belonging to the
physical penance, (1)
(201) Now, listen to the physical kind of penance. The Lord Shankara or the Lord Shrihari whoever
deity you have faith in-
(202) To go to the temple of that deity by undertaking pilgrimage, becomes a crazy habit of the feet
of the devotee, and he is dreaming all day and night about it.
(203) His hands are always eager to decorate the court-yards and precincts of temples, to provide
various articles of worship like sandalwood paste, flowers etc., and to do any work that he may
be asked to do by anybody in that respect.
(204) As soon as he happens to see any idol, image or divine symbol like that of Lord Shiva, his
body automatically prostrates before it like a wooden stick.
(205) He is very fond of doing all types of service respectfully, of Brahmins, who are endowed with
