virtues.
(206) He is eager to help those, who are tired by travel, suffering from any ailment or having
calamities befallen on them.
(207) He feels that his body is better to be thoroughly used to its end in the service of parents, who
are the greatest places of pilgrimage.
(208) He is always looking for an opportunity to serve a Master or a Guru whose very meeting
relieves great sufferings of worldly life.
(209) And, O the great warrior! He is making every effort to burn all the dross of the pride of
physical body, etc. by tempering his body, and scorching it in the oven of doing one's own duty.
(210) He is having a great desire to oblige others, because of realization that Atman is dwelling in
every being, and he bows before everybody with that respect, but with determination keeps
proper control over enjoyment of sense objects.
(211) Even he feels that at the time of birth, it was unavoidable to be in touch with a female body,
but from that moment onwards he should observe complete abstinence in respect of women.
(212) He does not dare to trample upon grass or even to cut its blades, thinking that all things are
sacred.
(213) When the actions and behaviour of the physical body will be so pure and humble, one should
know that the physical penance has become a perfected thing.
(214) O Partha, since in all these activities, the main instrument is physical body, I call this penance
as physical.
(215) Thus, I have discussed the physical penance. Now please listen to the purity of penance of
Speech.
अनु ेगकरं वा यं स यं िपयिहतं च यत्|
वा याया यसनं चैव वा यं तप उ यते
To speak in such a way that it does not hurt anybody, it is true and it is helpful for the welfare as
well as it is likable. Similarly to study about self-knowledge- This all is called the penance of
speech. (15)
(216) As the magic-stone Parees transforms iron into gold without taking out any part from it;
(217) When the speech is similar to it, which does not hurt anyone's feelings and is kind and makes
men happy who are near.
