But the penance which is performed with expectation of honour and felicitation or with ulterior
motive with hypocrisy, is called here Rajasic which is not of permanent nature and just has a
temporary effect. (18)
(242) Otherwise also by creating discrimination among people, when penance is performed with a
hope to sit on the high peak of self-importance.
(243) Or with an intention to receive great honours in the social ceremonies, which is not in the lot
of anybody in the three worlds, on occasions of conferences, dinner parties etc.,
(244) Or with a motive to be the recipient of appaluse by the world, and that people should again
and again come at one's door.
(245) Or with a hope to enjoy the honours of all kinds which should not be given to any other
people.
(246) Or efforts are made by giving the polish of outward penance to increase the prestige of
oneself, by adopting artificial attitudes and body and mannerisms of speech and a man thus
deceives others just as an ugly person wears dandy dress, and affects a style to gain respect.
(247) In short bad penance is called Rajasic which is performed with great troubles to oneself,
motivated by extreme desire for money and social status.
(248) Just as a cow which has some disease of udder, does not give milk eventhough it has given a
calf or just as the field which has been grazed by animals while it is half ready with growth, does
not yield crop.
(249) Similarly that penace which is performed with a big pomp and show becomes useless and
fruitless;
(250) And O the son of Pandu, when the man sees that this penance is useless, he gives it up and
therefore, there is no consistency in it.
(251) For example, a cloud which has appeared in the sky out of season may thunder and fill the
whole world with its echo, but will it remain so even for an hour?
(252) Similarly the penance which is Rajasic not only proves to be fruitless, but it is not even
completed.
(253) Now if that penance is Tamasic, when it is performed, the man loses both the happiness in
heaven and the fame in this world.
मूढगाहेणा मनो यत् पीडया िकयते तपः|
