That charity is called Sattwic in which something is given as a duty, even to a man who will not
repay it, and that is given to a proper deserving person at proper place and poper time or occasion.
(20)
(266) Thus, whatever is earned by doing our own duty in our occupation, should be given in charity
most respectfully.
(267) Many times, it so happens that we have procured best grade seed, but a good cultivated field
is not available. Similar thing happens in the case of charity.
(268) Or we have a priceless jewel, but good covering ring of gold is wanting and even if both are
there a proper man to wear it is not available.
(269) But if we are lucky, we have a good festival, an intimate friend and enough money, all at the
same time.
(270) Similarly when Sattwa is helpful for giving in charity, we get enough money, proper place and
time as well as a really deserving man to receive it.
(271) Therefore, we should try to find a proper place like the sacred place of Kuru-kshetra or Kashi
or any other sacred place equal to these.
(272) There, we should select any auspicious day like full-moon day or the last day of the lunar
month, or any other day of spiritually good influence.
(273) There, the man to whom charity is intended to be given should be selected, in such a way that
he is the very image of pure life.
(274) After we get such a pious well - versed Brahmin, who has good knowledge of Vedas and who
is really the ideal of good conduct,
(275) We should give up our sense of ownership and possession upon the money etc.; to be given to
him and it should be offered whole-heartedly, with that one-pointedness of a wife going to meet
her husband;
(276) Or like being free by giving back to the depositor what he had given us for safe-keeping or just
like a servant offers Pan (betel-leaf preparation) to the king;
(277) With similar sense of abandonment and unselfishness, we should give that man whatever is to
be given, like a piece of land etc. and we should not allow any selfishness to rise in our mind in
that action.
(278) And charity should be given to such a man who will never be able to refund it or return our
obligations in any way.
