(291) Or when some insignificant amount, not enough even to meet one modest meal, is given with a
view to obtain various kinds of pleasures in the higher worlds.
(292) And the giver, while giving even that little something is having a remoarse in his mind as if all
his belongings are looted by robbers!
(293) O the wise Arjuna, without explaining at length, I will simply say that when anything is given
as charity etc. in such a selfish manner, it should be known as Rajasic charity.
अदेशकाले य ानमपाते य दीयते|
अस क
ृ तमव ातं त ामसमुदा तम्
That charity which is given at wrong place, at wrong time, to non-deserving persons and given
without respect and with insults is called Tamasic charity. (22)
(294) When money is spent in the locality of bad people, in a jungle, in a dirty slum area, or in the
city square,
(295) In menacingly ominous bad evening, or if stolen money is given at night,
(296) To the sooth-sayers, singers, court-singers, jugglers, gamblers or prostitutes or such people
who are the very images of deception.
(297) To some who have beautiful body and are dancing in drunken ecstacy and to them whose false
flattery is ringing in the ears of the listeners.
(298) In addition there is good smell of flowers and fragrant articles in the atmosphere which has
turned one into a Vetala (a Satan) of greed incarnate.
(299) In such a state of mind and the surroundings when money or property which is robbed from all
quarters of the earth, is given like a dinner party given by a man who is a ‘Mang’–
(300) When such charity is given, I call it the Tamasic charity. There is something else which takes
place by such turn of luck, that
(301) Sometimes by the little insects carving wood create a random pattern, which resembles a letter
or sometimes when a crow perches on a little branch, it falls down. Similarly the Tamasic man
luckily gets the benefit of auspcious time and sacred place.
(302) And a deserving man also comes along to receive it, if he is a bit attracted to money.
(303) In that case, this Tamasic man has no faith in his mind, does not pay respects to that guest, does
not welcome him with water etc. nor allows anybody to do so.
