(304) He even does not offer a seat to the guest, not to speak about offering him any welcoming
refreshments etc. O Arjuna, only Tamasic persons can behave in such an insulting way, devoid of
ettiquettes.
(305) If at all he gives him something, it is in an attitude of scorn as if trying to get rid of a beggar or
a creditor, and he is uttering foul words continuously insulting him.
(306) And O the crowned one, when such charity is given, the giver afterwards repeats what he has
given and by speaking insulting words he puts that man in an ackward position.
(307) But let this be. Whatever is given in this way is called Tamasic charity.
(308) Thus I have told you all the three types of charity with the names also.
(309) But you may wisely think that since you very well know that-
(310) The only action which liberates us from this worldly life is Sattwic action, then why other
types of actions which are bad should at all be described?
(311) But, just as without evicting the ghost the hidden treasure cannot be had or just as a wick of
lamp is not kindled without first experiencing a little smoke;
(312) Similarly, how can the work of removing the Rajasic and Tamasic covers around the Sattwic
actions be called an undesirable action?
(313) We have told you that all the actions as such are full of the three qualities, right from the faith
upto the charity.
(314) We have no intention to tell all the tree types, as a matter of fact, but in order to make the
picture clear about what is Sattwic, we have simply touched the others in short.
(315) That which is caught on both sides by two things can be clearly seen only when those two are
removed, just as we know what is dawn or evening when we leave the day and night out of our
consideration.
(316) Similarly by destruction of Rajas and Tamas, the remaining Sattwa is clearly recognized.
(317) Thus, I have described Rajas and Tamas only to make you aware of them, discard them and
take the best advantage of the Sattwa only.
(318) If you perform actions like sacrifices, rituals etc. by abiding by only the Sattwa quality, you
will have experience of the self knowledge like a fruit kept on your palm.
(319) If the Sun is showing everything, what is there that we will not see! Thus when Sattwic action
