is performed, what fruit is there which it will not give?
(320) Thus Sattwa has the power to give you any desired fruit, but the final liberation of the soul into
the Brahman is quite different.
(321) And with the help of Sattwa, one easily steps into the state of liberation or enters the town
called 'liberation'.
(322) Though gold is pure and its value is fifteen rupees per "tola", it is used as a valid current coin
only when the king's seal is imprinted on it.
(323) Though clean, cool and scented water is very soothing, the sacredness is added to it only when
it is from a sacred place of pilgrimage.
(324) Though a river may be quite wide, it can meet the sea only when it joins a great river.
(325) Similarly, it is the Sattwic action which is really helpful to a man to reach liberation and there
are no difficulties in his way and that is the speciality of it."
(326) As soon as Arjuna listened to this, his eagerness could not be contained within himself and he
asked the Lord-"O God! Please be kind and tell me all about it."
(327) Then the greatest among the kind people, Lord Shrikrishna said- "All right! Please listen to the
explanation as to how the man of Sattwic quality sees the jewel which is called Liberation."
ॐ त सिदित िनदशो ब णि तिवधः मृतः|
बा णा तेन वेदा य ा िविहताः पुरा
OM, TAT, SAT - this has been declared from ancient times, as the threefold appellation of the
absolute Brahman (which is Truth, Consciousness and Bliss solidified). By that were defined the
Brahmanas, and the Vedas as well as the Sacrifices at the cosmic dawn. (23)
(328) So, the beginningless absolute Brahman, which is the primary source of this world and also its
final resting place is having one name with three syllables.
(329) Actually it is nameless and birthless but in the night of ignorance of Maya, this is only a sign
given to it by Vedas in order that we may recognize it.
(330) When a child is born it has no name, but we name it afterwards and when we call it by that
name, it gives response and gets up.
(331) When people being exhausted by the troubles and tribulations of worldly life come to Brahman
to complain and pray for relief, the Brahman gives the response to them and that is this word, viz.
'AUM'.
