(332) The Veda has compassionately found out a Mantra, by which the silence of Brahman should be
broken and non-duality should be attainable through duality.
(333) Then only by using this one-syllabled Mantra, Brahman can be entreated to become manifest
before us though it is invisible.
(334) But this Mantra is properly understood by those who are, in the purity of their consciousness
seated on the same level as the god Brahma, in the abstract city of Upanishads on the highest
peack of the mountain of Vedas.
(335) Not only this, but by uttering this word only once, the God Brahma got the power to create this
whole nature.
(336) O the great warrior Arjuna, before the beginning of the creation, Brahma, the god was alone
without any wisdom and was so confused,
(337) That he did not recognize me, the Lord also, and could not create anything at all; but he
became quite able only by this one name.
(338) By meditating on the meaning of this name and by respecting these three letters or utterances),
God Brahma attained the power to create the universe.
(339) Then he created the Brahmins and by ordering them to follow the Vedas He gave them the
Yadnya, the sacrificial rituals as a means for their existence.
(340) Then how many creatures he brought into existence, is not possible to count, and for their
subsistence, He gave them the rights of the three worlds.
(341) The Lord said to Arjuna further- "Please listen to the nature of that Mantra by which Brahma
the god, the creator, was able to bring into existence this wonderful universe.
(342) Thus, Pranava or 'AUM' is the king of all Mantras and 'Tat' is the second part while "Sat" is
the third part of this Mantra.
(343) Thus this is the triple name OM TAT SAT for Brahman. You should enjoy the fragrance of this
sweet and beautiful flower, which is the essence of the meaning of the Upanishads.
(344) When Sattwic action is done by being united with this name, it makes the 'liberation of
absolute aloneness', a household servant of the man.
(345) My dear, perhaps we may luckily get ornaments made of camphor! But it is very difficult to
know how to wear them!
