(346) Similarly, even if we perform a Sattwic action, and utter the name of Brahman, and still do not
know for what purpose it is to be applied, then–
(347) Just as our merit which is in our stock is lost, if we do not know how to welcome saints who
have come to us in a large number;
(348) Or just as with a strong desire to don golden ornaments one also puts on the joints of lesser
metal together with the gold around one's neck;
(349) Similarly, the name of Brahman is being uttered, Sattwic action is being done by hands but if
we do not know for what pupose it is meant, then all this will be in vain.
(350) My dear, there is food and a child is hungry but if it does not know how to eat the food, it is
but natural that it will be hungry only.
(351) Or, O the brave one, even if oil, wick and fire are at hand, if we do not know how to utilize
them together, we will not be getting light!
(352) Similarly, at the right time good action is being performed, we also remember the sacred
Mantra, but if we do not know its purpose, all will be futile.
(353) Therefore, please listen to the way in which this triple name of Brahman is to be applied or
utilized in our life.
त मादोिम युदा य य दानतपःिकयाः|
पवत ते िवधानो ाः सततं ब वािदनाम्
Therefore, actions of the knowers of Brahman are always performed according to the rules of the
scriptures, in the matter of Yadnya, charity and penance, by first uttering the word AUM! (24)
(354) The three letters of this sacred name should be used in the beginning, the middle and the end of
every action.
(355) By this method only those who know Brahman have achieved that state.
(356) As they are having faith in the performance of right action due to their study of the scriptures,
they do not remain without the right performance of Yadnyas, etc., or reaching unity with the
Brahman.
(357) But first they establish well in their mind through meditation the AUM, and then they utter it by
their speech.
(358) Then with the help of that concentration of AUM and its utterance, they proceed to the
