performance of Action.
(359) AUM should be resorted to at the beginning of action, like the taking of help of a lamp in the
dark, or of a strong man in a jungle.
(360) Those knowers of Brahman (in the form of Vedas) perform sacrifices by putting in the fire, the
pure things earned through righteous activities, through the help of the Brahmin priests, so as to
propitiate their dear deities.
(361) By being very careful they perform sacrifices in the three kinds of fires at three times a day,
following strictly the rules laid down in the relevent scriptures.
(362) Or, by the very acceptance of the duty of peforming such sacrifices, they give up the
impediments and bondages of the worldly life which they do not like anymore.
(363) They obtain, through legitimate means, land and other property and finding the auspicious time
and place as well as the deserving recipients, they give these things to them.
(364) Sometimes they continuously observe fast on particular alternate days or days after every two
or three days or according to the phases of the moon and thus become lean and emaciated in that
penance.
(365) Thus, they perform the very activities like sacrifices, charity and penances which are normally
a cause of bondage to the soul and through these, unselfishly performed, those knowers of
Brahman attain liberation easily.
(366) For example, boats are heavy on the land but we cross waters by using the same boats.
Similarly, by the help of this sacred name one is freed from binding actions.
(367) But enough of this repetition. In short, with the help of 'AUM' the activities such as sacrifices,
penances etc. become helpful towards liberation.
(368) When these activities seem to bring about some fruit in due course, the word "Tat" is used.
तिद यनिभसंधाय फलं य तपःिकयाः|
दानिकया िविवधाः िकय ते मो कांि िभः
Actions like Yadnya (sacrifices), penances and charities of various kinds are performed by those
who aspire for liberation, but have no motive of receiving fruit, by using the word 'Tat' (25)
(369) The absolute Brahman which is beyond the whole world, which witnesses all, and which is a
thing beyond all things, is denoted by the word "TAT"
(370) They meditate upon it as the root cause of all things and then those wise people utter the letter
