'TAT'.
(371) They pray- "Let all these actions be offered to that Brahman which is called Tat, and no fruit
may remain for us to enjoy, out of them.
(372) Thus, by offering all actions to the Brahman denoted by Tat, they say-"This is not mine" and
escape from the involvement into the results of those actions.
(373) Now, that action which is begun by speaking the word Om and offered to Brahman with the
word TAT,
(374) Is only an action which is outwardly apparent but as the actor, the doer conceives himself as
different, separate entity, it does not dissolve itself by this outward offering to Brahman.
(375) The salt gets dissolved into water but there is still salty taste to the water. Similarly the duality
remains because the doer thinks that 'he' has offered the action to Brahman.
(376) And so long as this duality persists, the fear of bondage of worldly life does not end. Vedas
which are the mouth of the God have been declaring this with full force.
(377) Therefore, in order that the Brahman which appears to be separate from the doer because of
his concept of the doer-ship, should be experienced in the Unity of the Atman, the word "SAT" is
used.
(378) The action- which has been tranformed into Brahman by the words OM and TAT, is called
"Auspicious" etc. and is praised.
(379) The word SAT is used for that auspicious or praiseworthly action. Now I shall further explain
that word SAT. Please listen.
स ावे साधुभावे च सिद येत पयु यते|
पश ते कमिण तथा स छ दः पाथ यु यते
The name of God as SAT is used in the sense of Truth and goodness and the word SAT is also
used in the case of praiseworthy act, O Partha! (26)
(380) By this word 'Sat' the coin of the manifest universe which is the product of ignorance is melted
and the real gold of 'SAT' as Brahman becomes evident.
(381) This reality which is called 'SAT' does not change by time and space; and is as it is, eternally
without a break.
(382) Now, this apparent world being impermanent, is not having any place in that SAT, and that
