SAT can be recognized only by realization of Atman.
(383) The action which is made auspicious by the SAT principle, becomes united with Brahman and
by the self knowledge of unity, it is perceived everywhere as Brahman only.
(384) Thus by OM and TAT, the action becomes one with Brahman and being meged, remains
simply and wholly as SAT only.
(385) So one should take into consideration the inner utilization of the word 'SAT' - so said the Lord
Shriranga! (Dnyanadev says- This is not my invention. It is what the Lord said.)
(386) He further says- "But if I say so, there is the error of thinking that the Lord has some duality in
Him. Therefore, one should decidedly take this opinion to be of the Lord Himself.
(387) The Lord said- "Now listen to one other way in which this word 'SAT' is utilized, as helpful
to Sattwic action."
(388) When good actions are being done by men according to their own standards and capacities,
sometimes there appear some defects in them.
(389) Then just as, when some limb of a body is defective, the body does not function normally or
just as a chariot without wheels does not run.
(390) Similarly a good 'SAT' action becomes sometimes defective, due to some lacunae.
(391) In such a case the word 'SAT' helps the two words 'AUM' and 'TAT', in making again that
action perfectly auspicious.
(392) It destroys the badness of the action, and then by its own essential power, turns it into a perfect
one.
(393) Just as a good medicine cures a patient of his ailment and makes him again healthy, this 'Sat'
removes the defect in the action.
(394) Or due to some mistake, action breaks the rules about right way of performance and turns to a
wrong path.
(395) It so happens that those who are walking straight suddenly go the wrong way and sometimes
even an expert becomes confused. Thus, what may not happen in the course of events? Anything
may happen.
(396) Therefore, when like this, suddenly action becomes bersirk and is then likely to be defamed as
wrong action;
