(397) If the word 'SAT' is wisely used, even more so than the words 'AUM' and 'TAT', it gives that
action the required purity.
(398) Like the friction of the magic stone 'Parees' to the iron, or like the meeting of a brook with the
sacred Ganges or like the rain of nectar for a dead man;
(399) Similarly, O the great warrior Arjuna, the use of the word SAT is purifying to the defective or
bad action. Such is the greatness of this word!
(400) When having taken into consideration the importance of this word as explained, you will
regard this word 'SAT', you will know for yourself that this is itself Brahman.
(401) Just see now in short - This uttering the words OM TAT SAT takes you to that supreme state
from which all this manifest world receives illumination.
(402) That supreme state is alone, unbroken pure absolute Brahman and this word, this name is
indicative of its inner power.
(403) Just as sky itself is the support for the sky, this name has the support of this name only.
(404) The Sun which rises in the sky illumined by himself and not by any other. Similarly this name
itself is the manifest Brahman.
य े तपिस दाने च ि थितः सिदित चो यते|
कम चैव तदथ यं सिद येवािभधीयते
And the firm steady faith in the performance of sacifices, penances and charity is likewise spoken
of as 'SAT' and acion for the sake of God is also called as 'SAT' only. (27)
(405) This name should not be simply taken to be of three letters, but should be considered as
Brahman. Thus, whatever is done for this purpose;
(406) Whatever it be as sacrifice, charity or penance and may it be finalized or remain incomplete -
(407) All of these become one with Brahman, just as by the touch of 'Parees', gold is always made
pure, there is no gold of lesser mark.
(408) Just as rivers once merged into sea cannot be separately recognized, similarly in this action
which is surrendered into Brahman there is no defect whatsoever.
(409) Thus, O the wise Arjuna, I have explained to you the power and the nature of this name of
Brahman-
(410) And, O the brave warrior, I have also told you the hidden significance of each term contained
