in respect of this or the other world.
(423) Thus said the Lord Shikishna, who is the lion destroying the elephants of sins, the Sun who
dissipates the darkness of triple calamities that befall a man in this life, who is the lover of
goddess Laxmi, and who is the greatest among the bravest men.
(424) At that time, Arjuna was so lost in the blissful state of Atman, as if Moon herself becomes
dissolved in her own light!
(425) Really, the war is like a ‘groce’! He uses the sharp ends of arrows as measures and fills these
measures by flesh and thus does a short work of finishing human life–
(426) And the most wounderful thing is how could Arjuna in such a hard time be able to enjoy the
bliss of inner self! Nobody else in the world is so fortunate as Arjuna!
(427) Sanjaya said to the king of Kouravas- "By seeing the virtues of this our enemy, great respect
arises for him in the mind, and in a sense, he has become a sort of Guru to us who gives us such
happiness!
(428) Had he not asked this question, how could the Lord have revealed the hidden truths? And how
could we have been acquainted with the spiritual wisdom?
(429) We were moving aimlessly in the cycle of births and deaths in the darkness of ignorance,
when, all of a sudden, he has brought us into the temple of light of self-knowledge.
(430) What a great obligation has he done to you and me! Really, he seems to be a brother of Vyasa
in his role of a Guru.
(431) After saying so openly, Sanjaya wisely said to himself- "This king will find this praise of
Arjuna a bit annoying. It is, therefore, wise not to talk about it.’’
(432) Thus thinking, he stopped his reporting. Afterwards he started to tell about some other things
which Arjuna asked the Lord Shrikrishna.
Saint Dnyandev said- "I am going to do exactly like Sanjaya now, - so requests Dnyanadeva, the
disciple of Nivrutti, which please listen to."
इित शीम गव ीतोपिनष सु ब िव ायां योगशा ते
शीक
ृ णाजुनसंवादे श ातयिवभागयोगेो नाम स दशोऽ यायः समा ः
Thus in the Upanishads sung by the Lord, in the science of the knowledge of Brahman, in the
scripture of Yoga and in the dialogue between the Lord Shikrishna and Arjuna, the Seventeenth
chapter by name "The Yoga of the Three kinds of Faith" comes to an end.
