शीभगवानुवाच-
का यानां कमणां यासं सं यासं कवयो िवदुः|
सवकमफल यागं पाह यागं िवच णाः
Shri Bhagvan said, "Some sages understand Sannyasa as the giving up of all actions motivated by
desire; and other thinkers declare that Tyaga consists in relinquishing the fruit of all actions. (2)
(98) Such actions like sacrifices of horse, etc., which are performed with the enhanced ambitious
desire,
(99) And digging of wells, giving in charity a piece of land or the whole village; to grow gardens for
public utility, and various penances done with pride,
(100) And other such actions, which are undertaken for social utilities, and desire is at their root,
become binding, and compel the doer to reap their fruits.
(101) O Dhananjaya, when we have come to the town of this body, we cannot say 'no' to the
happenings of birth and death.
(102) Or what is written as destiny on the forehead, cannot be avoided or our texture of the skin,
either dark or fair, cannot be washed clean.
(103) Just as we cannot escape repayment of a loan, similarly when action is done with a desire, it
comes back at our door and waits to be retributed by the fruit.
(104) O the son of Pandu, just as while playing with toy-arrows, if any arrow hits
us, it definitely kills us; similarly, even if action with desire happens unintentionally,
(105) Just like jaggery is sweet, even if we put it in our mouth without knowing it or thinking that
when there appears in our path only ash, we put a foot upon it and if ember is hidden there, it
definitely burns.
(106) Similarly there is natural power in action done with desires, to give you fruit without mistake
and, therefore, the seeker of liberation should not commit such actions even as a fun.
(107) O Partha, supposing, by accident, some poison is taken, we vomit it. Similarly such actions
should be given up.
(108) The all-knowing Lord Shrikrishna further said-" Such giving up is called the real
renunciation."
(109) He further said, "When we give up money, the danger arising out of it also disappears.
