Similarly to give up actions which are done with desires is equal to giving up the desires
themselves from our mind.
(110) Actions or ceremonies to be performed at the time of the Sun or Moon eclipse or the death
anniversaries of parents,
(111) Or if a guest comes at the time of dinner, when some food is offered to him, etc.– are
occasional actions.
(112) In rainy season, clouds are accumulated in the sky and they thunder. In spring, gardens have
enhanced beauty because the trees have new tender leaves. Youth adds beauty to the body.
(113) The Somakanta stone oozes by moon-light and lotus-flowers bloom in the Sun. Here whatever
is existing becomes enriched, and no new things are added.
(114) Similarly actions which are of a routine nature become occasional when they are done on
particular days under their own rules.
(115) When we perform actions in the morning, at noon or in the evening, there is no increase in the
quality of our eye-sight, because of that.
(116) The feet may not walk, but there is the quality of movement inherent in them, or the lamp has
natural light in its flame.
(117) The sandalwood is naturally fragrant without applying good smell to it from outside. Similarly
the capacity of action is inherent in us.
(118) When such is the case, O Partha, it is called action of a routine nature. Thus I have shown you
both the routine and occasional actions.
(119) Some people call this action of both types as useless because it is to be done unavoidably.
(120) But meals are a regular routine. However, by taking food, there is satisfaction as well as the
cessation of hunger. Similarly these actions definitely give results.
(121) Just as by heating, dross burns out and gold becomes purer, similarly, these actions bring
about certain results like purification of mind.
(122) By performance of such actions, the defects in our character drop away, our capacity increases
and evolution is easily helped in our life.
(123) Though these actions are fruitful, the fruits should be abandoned, just as people sometimes are
seen abandoning a child born on "Moola" constellation (on an inauspicious time.)
