(124) For example, though many creepers grow more and mango trees bear new leaves because of
spring season, the spring season does not touch anything and goes away when time is over.
(125) Similarly the routine and occasional actions should be performed with due regard to rules and
regulations, carefully, but the fruits arising out of them should be dropped like vomit.
(126) The wise people say that to give up the fruits of these routine and occasional actions is the real
abandonment or giving up. In this way I have explained to you the difference between Tyaga and
Sanyasa.
(127) When Sanyasa happens in this way, naturally there is no question of bondage arising out of
actions done with desires, and the prohibited action automatically disappears because one does
not commit those actions.
(128) Just as when the head is pushed forward, the body being is also pushed automatically,
similarly when the fruits arising out of the routine and the occasional actions are relinquished,
they do not affect the man.
(129) When just as the grains are ready and ripe, the crop does not grow further, all actions become
non-existent and self-knowledge comes searching that man.
(130) So, those who give up the fruits of these actions, and renounce selfish actions, deserve self-
knowledge.
(131) But if making a mistake about this tact, some try to give-up actions, it will create more
confusion.
(132) If a wrong medicine is taken without diagnosis of the disease, it becomes poisonous. Or if a
man does not take food, will he not die of hunger?
(133) Therefore, those actions which are not to be given-up, should not be given up, and those
actions which are really to be dropped should not be performed with greed.
(134) If a man misses the above tact of how and what is to be given up, he will be bound by action,
even if he avoids doing it. Therefore, those who are really desireless, never commit actions
which are rightly to be given up.
या यं दोषविद येक
े कम पाहमनीिषणः|
य दानतपःकम न या यिमित चापरे
Some wise men declare that all actions have some defect and are, therefore, worth giving up;
while others say that sacrifice, charity and penance should not be given up. (3)
