(135) Some find that they cannot give up their desire for fruit and, therefore, they say that all actions
are binding, just like a man who himself is naked, blames all the world as quarrelsome.
(136) O Dhananjaya, it is like a man who cannot control his taste for food though he is ill, and
blames the food; or a leper is not nauseated by his own rotting limbs but gets irritated at the flies
hovering around.
(137) Similarly those who fall prey to the attraction of fruits of their actions, blame all actions as
bad, because they are weak-willed and say that all actions should be given up.
(138) Some others say that sacrifices etc. should be performed because there is no other action as
purifying as these.
(139) They say that if we wish to progress on the path of self-purification, we should not be
negligent in the matter of using the weapon of karma or such actions as above.
(140) Just as we should not be averse to the use of fire, if we wish to purify the gold, or as we have
to use ash first to clean a mirror.
(141) Or, if we wish our clothes to be cleansed, we cannot say that the washerman's tub is dirty.
(142) So, we should not avoid actions only because they involve hard work. Can we get food
without the troubles of cooking it?
(143) So, some people give importance to action in these words, and thus the subject of the
renunciation of action has become controversial.
(144) Therefore, I shall tell you clearly and definitely so that the doubts will be removed and
decision can be taken. Please listen.
िन यं शुणु मे तत यागे भरतस म|
यागो िह पु ष याघ ितिवधः संपक िततः
O the great Bharat and the tiger among men! Please listen to the definite knowledge about
renunciation or giving up. This giving up is described to be of three kinds. (4)
(145) O Pandava, the giving up is of three kinds. I will nicely analyse all the three.
(146) Though I will tell you the three kinds of 'giving up', know that I tell you in short only.
(147) Whatever principle seems to be fixed to my all-knowing intellect, you may first listen to it.
(148) The man who is alert about his own emacipation, will have to attend to this aspect definitely.
