य दानतपः कम न या यं कायमेव तत्|
य ो दानं तप ैव पावनािन मनीिषणाम्
Sacrifice, charity and penance are the kinds of action which must be done. The sacrifice, the
charity and the penance purify the serious minded seekers. (5)
(149) Just as a man who walks should not stop taking step after step, similarly man should never
give up doing sacrifices, giving in charity and performance of penance.
(150) Just as search must not be given up before finding the desired object, or the dish of food
should not be put aside before one is fully satisfied by the food,
(151) Or a boat should not be broken before reaching the other shore, or a plantain tree should not he
cut before it yields bananas or just as lamp should not be extinguished before the object which
one wants to find is seen.
(152) Similarly, it is not proper to be apathetic about the performances of sacrifice, penance, etc.,
before your intellect is completely convinced about the finality of self-knowledge.
(153) On the other hand, one should go on performing these actions carefully according to our
eligibility in that respect.
(154) When a person walks faster, it helps him to take rest later on. Similarly to do all ordained
actions fully, helps a man reach a state where no more action remains to be performed as a
necessity.
(155) The more regularly one takes medicine, the earlier the disease is cured.
(156) Similarly, the more alertly and promptly these actions are performed, the earlier are the
defects of Rajas and Tamas dropped from the character of the performer.
(157) When gold in subjected to more and more acid treatment, the purer it becomes by the dross
being cleansed off.
(158) Similarly when these actions are performed loyally and faithfully, they wipe away the Rajas
and Tamas from the character and the divine temple of pure Sattwa comes in our view.
(159) O Arjuna, it is for this reason that these actions have become equally purifying as the sacred
places of pilgrimage.
(160) The sacred place of pilgrimage washes the dirt of the outer body when we bathe there, and
Sattwic action washes the inner dirt. Therefore the places of pilgrimage get the power of
purifying the sins due to these pure actions only.
