(173) People pour water at the root of the Peepal tree, but they have no hope for getting the fruits of
that tree. Similarly actions should be done devoid of any hope for fruits.
(174) A cowherd who takes cattle of all the villagers together with his own cattle for grazing to the
open grounds etc., has no desire to milk every cow for his own benefit. Such should be our
attitude in the actions.
(175) When action is done by a man with this inner freedom, he certainly attains his own Real Self.
(176) Therefore, my message is that without keeping any desire for fruit, without being proud to be
the doer, the actions should be properly performed.
(177) I repeat that he who is fed up with his confined state as a Jeeva and is keen for liberation
should not disregard this edict of mine.
िनयत य तु सं यासः कमणो नोपप ते|
मोहा य प र यागः तामसः प रक िततः
Giving up of the action ordained as our duty is not right. If it is given up due to confusion or greed
for some benefit, etc., it is called a Tamasic renunciation. (7)
(178) He gives up all actions being angry with all of them. This is like thrusting our own fingers in
our eyes because there is darkness.
(179) I call this action of this man as Tamasic. It is like cutting our head because there is headache!
(180) You see; even though the path may not be very smooth, but does it mean that we should cut our
feet? Or is it not wise to walk somehow?
(181) If a hungry man is given good warm food and getting annoyed he kicks it away, he will surely
remain hungry only.
(182) In the same way a foolish man deluded by the binding nature of action, does not know how to
nullify that binding quality by action only.
(183) He gives up his duty also which comes along in the natural course. You should never resort to
such Tamasic action.
दुःखिम येव य कम काय लेशभयात् यजेत्|
स क
ृ वा राजसं यागं नैव यागफलं लभेत्
When action is given up fearing all the troubles involved in it, because action is painful, the man
does Rajasic action of giving up, and gets no merits of that renunciation. (8)
