(184) Or it so happens that a man knows his capacity and understands what is his duty but he is
afraid of the hardness of the task.
(185) This is because at the beginning the work is very difficult, just like the tiffin box is heavy
while the traveller carries it.
(186) Or, Neem is bitter to the tongue, Harda is first astringent. Similarly the beginning of the action
is exhausting.
(187) Or just as a good cow has sharp dangerous horns, or a thorny flower-shrub has thorns all over,
or the work of cooking food before meals is hard;
(188) Similarly, many times the doer finds his duty painful in the beginning and therefore, avoids it.
(189) He, however, starts to do the work because he is aware that it is his duty, but when he gets
tired, he becomes afraid and gives it up half-way.
(190) He says- "Luckily I have got this boon of this body! Then why should I trouble it by so much
hard work?"
(191) Who has told me to do this work and then wait for its fruit? I would rather enjoy the pleasures
now which are available.
(192) One who leaves his duty by being afraid of the hard work involved in it, should be known as a
man doing Rajasic renunciation.
(193) Even in this case there is renunciation of action, but just as milk overflown while boiling
cannot be counted as milk offered as oblation in the sacrificial fire,
(194) Or just as we cannot say that the people who were killed due to drowning, took Samadhi in
water; and we have to count that death as accidental death only;
(195) Similarly, he who gives up his ordained duty due to his love of his body, cannot get the merit
of that giving up of action.
(196) In short, just as at the dawn, the stars disappear and light spreads, when our self-knowledge is
realized,
(197) O Dhananjaya, it dissolves our ignorance as well as all our actions, and then only, the aim of
liberation is attained.
(198) O Arjuna, he who gives up his action due to ignorance does not get the result of liberation and
his giving up is Rajasic. You should not call it real renunciation.
