(199) Now I shall tell you how and by what kind of renunciation there is liberation. Please listen.
कायिम येव य कम िनयतं िकयतेऽजुन|
संगं य वा फलं चैव स यागः साि वको मतः
When action is done, O Arjuna, knowing that it is our duty only, and when there is giving up of
attachment and desire for its fruit also, that renunciation is called the Sattwic one. (9)
(200) When a man performs his duty, which is fixed for him by religion and his status, it is perfect
according to its rules.
(201) But the sense that "he is the doer" does not touch his mind at all and when he gives up the hope
to gain any result from it, it is a Sattwic way of renunciation.
(202) O Arjuna, in respect of mother, both the disobedience and the passion, become cause for sin.
(203) And therefore, both these must be abandoned and then only, the mother should be worshipped.
Do we abandon the cow only because it eats anything even if that is not a good food?
(204) Even the peels and the hard core of our best favourite fruit are worth throwing away, but do
we throw the whole fruit for that reason?
(205) Thus, both things namely the pride of our being the doer and the hope for enjoying the fruit are
binding, when action is performed.
(206) When, just as a father has no desire in regard to his daughter, both these attitudes are not
allowed to grow in our mind, then the natural duties do not create bondage.
(207) Such renunciation should be considered as a great tree which yields the fruit of liberation and
this is famous as Sattwic renunciation in the world.
(208) When a man leaves his hope for fruit, and destroys the binding quality of action just as the
whole tree is automatically destroyed when we burn its seed;
(209) Then just as, at the touch of Parees stone, the iron loses its blackness, he whose Rajas and
Tamas qualities are destroyed,
(210) And when by clear Sattwa, whose eyes of self-knowledge are opened, then, just as the mirage
is no more visible in the evening,
(211) He never perceives the delusion of the apparent universe anywhere, just as we cannot demark
any boundary for the sky.
