be stupid to think of giving up all actions?
(223) We apply sandalwood paste or wipe it out from our forehead, because we are free to do so,
but can we scratch out the forehead itself and put it on again?
(224) Similarly, the duties ordained for us by scriptures are respected by us and therefore, we
perform or do not perform them, as we are free to do so; but the inborn actions of the functions of
body inside it- how can we give them up?
(225) This is because even in our sleep, such functions as breathing etc. are continued. Even in the
case of a man not doing anything, actions are going on.
(226) Action and our body are inseparable; in life or after death, it is there.
(227) There are only one kind of persons who have escaped from actions; they are those who have
no hope for the fruit though they perform actions.
(228) When the result of action is surrendered to God, there is self-knowledge by His blessings, just
as when we see a rope as a rope clearly, the delusion that it is a snake disappears.
(229) Similarly, by self-knowledge, bondage of action is destroyed together with ignorance. O
Partha, such giving up is the true thing.
(230) Therefore, we call such people the true renouncers; otherwise, just as one may consider a man
to be taking rest when actually he is unconscious.
(231) One may consider change of work when one is tired of one work, as a rest, but it is as if to
prefer beating by fists to the beating by sticks.
(232) But let this explanation be. I tell you again that only he should be considered as the true
renouncer, who renounces the fruit of action and thus reduces action to nothingness.
अिन िम ं िमशं च ितिवधं कमणः फलम्|
भव य यािगनां पे य न तु सं यािसनां विचत्
In the case of these who do not give up fruit of action in this way, the fruits of their actions are of
three types which are undesirable, desirable or mixed. But that is seldom the case of the true
renouncers. (12)
(233) O Dhananjaya, there are three types of fruits of action to be enjoyed by those who are capable
of it, because they do not give up the results.
(234) The father gives birth to a daughter and at the time of her marriage, says- "This is not mine,"
and gives her to the bridegroom. Thus he becomes free, but his son-in-law then becomes
