responsible for her.
(235) People who grow poisonous herbs sell them to others and earn lot of easy money but those
who purchase them by paying the cost and consume them, die!
(236) Similarly, even if the doer performs any action, if his mind is free of the desire for its fruit, he
remains a non-doer. Action in itself cannot affect both these things.
(237) Just as one who wishes to take the fruit of a tree by the roadside which is ripe and at hand,
similarly, only he who wishes to get the fruit of action gets it.
(238) But he who does not desire or be attached to the result of the actions which he performs
aloofly, does not get caught in the wheel of this world, because this world is actually the result of
three types of actions.
(239) This world is made up of human beings, gods and inanimate things and these categories are
nothing but the three kinds of the results of actions!
(240) These kinds are either undesirable results, desirable ones or results of mixed nature.
(241, 242) When Jeevas become slaves to the objects of enjoyment, and are attracted to sins, and
commit prohibited actions, they go to take birth as insects, ants, stones or earth also. This should
be considered as undesirable result of action.
(243, 244) Or when people respect their own duty according to their status and class and perform
only the actions which are said to be meritorious in the Vedas and scriptures, go to be born as
gods like Indra, etc.; which result should be considered, as desirable result of action.
(245) And just as by mixing sweet and sour food articles, quite another tasty article is prepared
which is different from both the tastes;
(246) For example, breath control as a total process is quite different from the inhalation and the
exhalation considered independently. Similarly when truth and non-truth are mixed-up in anything,
the product is half-truth and half untruth, which is quite strange.
(247) Similarly when the resultant effect of desirable result and undesirable result mixed together
comes into being, it causes rebirth in the human kingdom. This should be considered as mixed
result.
(248) In this way, three types of results of Karma are prevalent in this world, and the souls which
run after hope generally, have no other alternative except suffering this result.
(249) Sometimes when the taste becomes perverted and uncontrollable, unwholesome food is felt
very tasty, but it may result even in death.
