(250) Or company of a robber in a gentleman's dress seems to be good so long as the traveller does
not reach dense forest, and prostitute is tolerable to look at only so long as there is no physical
contact.
(251) Similarly a person becomes puffed up by pride, while executing certain actions, but all the
actions attack as 'results' together at the time of his death.
(252) Just as a powerful money-lender does not go away from the door of a person, who has taken
loan, without recovering his money, similarly these actions come back with results which cannot
be avoided.
(253) For example, a grain from the ear of grains falls down on earth, it grows again, and bears new
ears from which again the same process of growth is repeated.
(254) Similarly the person creates many new causes ensuring results, while he is already reaping the
results of one action, just as while walking, each foot takes one step ahead of another foot.
(255) Or when one crosses the river and goes to the other shore, that shore becomes the starting
point from which again one has to cross the river, when time comes. Similarly the results of
actions never cease.
(256) In other words, as a chain of means and an end, the results of actions and their enjoyments go
on increasing, and in this way the souls who do not give up hope for the fruits become more and
more entangled in the net of worldly life.
(257) But just as the very blossoming of the flower of Jasmine is its beginning of withering,
similarly some people become instrumental for actions, but it is inaction, and they are not the
doers.
(258) If grains kept for seeds for the next crop are used for consuming, they do not bring any crop
next year. Similarly, there are people who have given up the fruits of action, and thus thwarted the
further growth of bondage.
(259) On the strength of the essential purity of Sattwa quality, they become fresh by the self-
knowledge, nourished by the blessing of their Guru and in their case, the poverty of duality
disappears.
(260) Then all the varieties of three categories of results caused generally by the delusion of the
world, are destroyed and the enjoyer or the receiver of the result, and the result itself
automatically cease to be.
(261) O the great warrior, only those in whose life such renunciation based on self-knowledge takes
place, are really free of the desire for fruit.
