(262) And when the vision of such a person becomes very vast due to this renunciation, he sees
everything in Atman. Then, how can he feel that action is something different from him?
(263) For example, if the wall on which the pictures are painted, falls down, the pictures are
automatically turned into dust. Further, is there any place for darkness to live when the day
breaks?
(264) My dear, when the form itself is not there, where can its shadow be? If there is no mirror, how
can our face be reflected?
(265) When sleep is totally disturbed, where is the place for dream? And when there is no dream,
how does the question whether it is real or unreal arise?
(266) Similarly, when the life of ignorance is finished by such renunciation based on self-
knowledge, how can there be the exchange of the results of actions, which are themselves in the
field of that ignorance?
(267) Therefore, how can there be any question of action and its result in the case of such a Sanyasi?
But so long as there is ignorance in our body,
(268) So long as the soul is running after good or bad action in the fever of his pride of doership;
and so long as dualistic approach has its imprint on his vision;
(269) Dear Arjuna, there is going to be difference between Atman (soul) and his action, just as there
is difference between the east and the west.
(270) Or as there is evident difference between the sky and the clouds, the Sun and the mirage, and
between the earth and the wind,
(271) Or as there is difference in the stones and water, though stones are merged within water,
(272) No doubt, moss is very near the water but it is different from it. Can we say that the soot is the
lamp, only because it is with the lamp?
(273) There is dark patch on the Moon, but it is not one with the Moon. Similarly there is quite a
distinction between the physical organ of the eye and the vision.
(274) Not only this, but just as there is difference between the road and one who walks on it, the
stream of water and the man being carried away with it; or the mirror and the man seeing his own
reflection in it;
(275) O Partha, that is the difference between Atman and the action; but alas! If at all the sheer
ignorance would allow us some scope to realize this!
