O Arjuna, the son of ‘Kuru’s, in this yoga, the intellect is determinate and one -pointed towards
the ideal, while the intellect of hesitant and ignorant persons wanders in all directions going after new
aims endlessly. (41)
(238) Just as the little flame of a lamp gives much light, this good intellect also should not be taken
to be insignificant.
(239) O Partha, the great thoughtful people desire to adopt this type of intelligence applied to action,
because this benevolent intention is really very rare in the world.
(240) The magic stone “Parees” is not available everywhere like ordinary stones; and even a drop
of nectar is available by rare good luck.
(241) Similarly that type of intelligence for which Paramatman is the only aim, is really scarcely
found. As sea is the final aim of Ganges, so is Paramatman the final aim for such intelligence.
(242) O Arjuna, only that can be called the real intelligence for which God is the only final
objective.
(243) Any other thinking faculty is bad intelligence in which there are many distortions and in which
only stupid thoughtless people are interested.
(244) O Partha, therefore they have to their lot the various states of heaven, worldly life, and hell.
They never get even a glimpse of self-bliss.
यािममां पुि पतां वाचं पवद यिवपि ताः|
वेदवादरताः पाथ ना यद तीित वािदनः
कामा मानः वगपराः ज मकमफलपदाम्|
िकयािवशेषबहलां भोगै यगितं पित
भोगै यपस ानां तयाऽप तचेतसाम्|
यवसायाि मका बुि ः समाधौ न िवधीयते
O Arjuna, those who are full of worldly desires and are attached to the letter of the Vedas, who
look up to heaven as the highest goal to be reached and argue that there is nothing beyond heaven are
not wise. They utter flowery speech, recommending many rituals as their fruit. Those who are enticed
by this speech and who are deeply attached to pleasures and earthly glory, cannot attain the firm
intellect concentrated upon God, in the Supreme Trance. (42-43-44)
(245) They talk on the base and support of Vedas, and advocate only the rituals and ceremonies, but
they bear inwardly in their mind the desire for the results of these rituals.
