(288) Then the Lord, in his natural omnipotence became conscious of the environment and himself;
and started to pull Arjuna out of the sea of happiness.
(289) Though Arjuna was the most formidable intellectual, he was also carried away by the blissful
stream of love but the Lord controlled that spate also and further said–
(290) "My dear Arjuna, do not become forgetful of your real nature as Atman." Listening to this
Arjuna nodded and sighed.
(291) Then he said, "O the most generous Lord! You know that I can hardly suffer this duality when
we are so near each other, and am impatient to become one with you!
(292) If you are very fond of my eagerness and are actually applauding me for it, then why are you
again reminding me that I am a Jeeva different from you?"
(293) Upon this, Shrikrishna said, "It seems that you have not understood this matter properly. Is the
Moon and the moonlight different from each other?
(294) Further, we wish to tell you something really secret. We are inwardly afraid to show you our
unity, and it is only because of my love for you that I tolerate you even though you are annoyed
with me.
(295) So long as this love between us is very keen, our bodies may be existing separately but it does
not matter!
(296) O the son of Pandu, let as turn to our subject. I was telling you how all actions are separate
and not connected to Atman.
(297) Immediately Arjuna said, "O Lord, it is nice that you have introduced the question which was
in my mind.
(298) Because, is it not that you have yourself promised me to explain the group of five causes
which are the seeds of all actions?
(299) And you have also to explain to me your statement that Atman is not connected to actions."
(300) Here, the Lord of the Universe was glad to say, "My dear, where is there any such listener
who is so keen about this subject?
(301) Therefore, be sure, what was promised will be definitely explained, but obligations on you
will then be heavier, because of love."
(302) Arjuna said, "O Lord, did you forget what we talked about earlier? It is for this love that we
are maintaining the separate identities as two persons.
