(315) Please listen to their signs also. The body is the first cause here, according to my opinion.
(316) This is called the 'Place' because the enjoyer lives here with the objects of his enjoyment.
(317,318) Where, for all the pains and pleasures brought through the ten hands of ten organs from the
surrounding nature, the Purusha ( the bearer of the body, the Jeeva) has this only place to suffer or
enjoy them and not elsewhere. Therefore the body is called the "Place."
(319) This body is the joint home for all the twenty four elements of Nature to live together and the
question of bondage or freedom is solved here only.
(320) Or, O Dhananjaya, this body is called the place because it is the base on which the three
stages of life namely the childhood, the youth and the oldage appear.
(321) The doer or the factor who acts, the agent is the second cause of action. He is actually a
reflection of life energy (Chaitanya), or the spirit.
(322) This is like the following example. The sky is from where it rains, the rain water forms a pool
on earth and the sky is reflected in that poolwater.
(323) Or like a king who forgets his royal status in a dream, and in the dream-experience, he sees
that he is a beggar and thinks likewise.
(324) Similarly the spirit, by forgetting its reality, takes up the fictitious form and limited life of a
body and is expressed in that body only.
(325) And now, he who is named as Jeeva, by forgetting his Reality, and who is as if bound by a
covenant to be with the body in everything and in every condition,
(326) Says by delusion that he has performed all actions which are actually the functions of the
Nature itself, and thus he is called the "doer" as one of the causes of action.
(327) Then as the eyesight though actually homogeneous one, appears to be divided like the threads
of a hairy fan because the little hair on the follicles affect it in that way.
(328) And just as the light coming from only one source of lamp kept in a room, appears to be many
lights through the various windows of the room,
(329) Or just as one single man appears to be different men according to the moods he expresses like
love, anger, fear, fearsomeness, pathos, etc., while enacting such roles;
(330) Similarly, one single quality of knowing, which is the quality of intellect, becomes expressed
in various ways through the organs of hearing, seeing, smelling, touching and tasting.
