(359) In this whole process, the body and organs themselves produce the body and organs, just as by
iron hardware instruments, iron articles are made.
(360) Or just as the threads add themselves in the weaving of cloth by the vertical and horizontal
lines and themselves become the cloth.
(361) Similarly, actions of the mind, speech and the body themselves become the cause of all these,
namely the mind, the speech and the body.
(362) Now if anybody asks- "How can the body, etc., which are the causes, themselves become the
reasons for bringing about themselves?"- then he may listen to the following explanation.
(363) Sir, is not Sun the cause of the light and is he not seen because of that same light? Similarly,
the growth of one and the next parts of sugarcane is the growth of the whole sugarcane.
(364) If the deity of speech is to be praised, we have to employ the speech only in that work or if we
have to say anything about the greatness of the Vedas, the Vedic hymns are only useful to do it.
(365) Similarly we definitely know that body etc. are the causes for actions, but it is also true that
they themselves are the reasons for the actions.
(366) And the actions which arise out of the body etc. as causes; and become themselves the body
etc. as a result,
(367) They become all very proper and justifiable, if all are performed according to the rules in the
scriptures and also become themselves the ideals of justice.
(368) The storm waters flow towards the paddy field and are absorbed in the earth there, but they
become greatly beneficial, in the form of grains.
(369) Or, an angry man leaves his home in a fit of anger and luckily turns in the direction of Dwarka
(which is a sacred place of pilgrimage). His feet will be tired, no doubt; but not in vain! (Because
he may reach Dwarka!)
(370) Similarly, if action is born out of the unity of cause and effect ( or result or aim) that action is
blind, but if it has the vision of scriptural sanction, then that action should be called a just action.
(371) Otherwise, milk is spilt outside the pot when it is being poured. In this case milk from the pot
in our hand is wasted, but it cannot be justifiably said to be 'used'. It is wasted only.
(372) Similarly if action performed without following proper directives of the scriptures is to be
called proper and not to be considered as wasted, then why should we not debit to the "Charities"
account, the property robbed by the robbers? No, that will be a mistake!
