(373) You may consider any Mantra. It is not having letters beyond the root alphabets (52 in case of
Marathi) and is there any human being who has not uttered these alphabets one day or the other?
(374) But; O the wielder of the Bow, so long as the significance of the Mantra is not understood, the
speaker of all the alphabets is not going to get the promised benefit of that Mantra.
(375) Similarly any stray action which takes place with the dovetailing of the cause and the reason,
so long as it does not follow the instructions of the scriptures, it is-
(376) No doubt taking place as normally any action takes place; but it is not the true action. Actually
such an action is born of injustice and it produces injustice only.
ततैवं सित कतारमा मानं क
े वलं तु यः|
प य यक
ृ तबुि वा न स प यित दुमितः
When the fact is like this, he who thinks himself as the only doer, does not see clearly because he
is not intelligent enough and is not having any discrimination. (16)
(377) O the man of great fame; when the actions are thus caused by five factors, and have five
reasons or purposes and Atman is caught here,
(378) As the Sun rays which do not take any form, show the eyes as well as the objects to be seen by
them, similarly Atman does not do any actions but makes them manifest.
(379) O the bravest one, just as the man who sees, does not become the mirror nor the reflection in
the mirror, but can visualize both.
(380) Or the Sun does cause the day and night without himself experiencing both. Similarly, O the
son of Pandu, Atman does not act but actions only appear on him.
(381) But, for a man whose intellect is confined only to the body because he foolishly thinks himself
only as a body; it is simply a dark night of ignorance as regards Atman
(382) He who has limited the spirit, the god and the Brahman to the narrow limits of his physical
body, thinks with all his conviction that Atman is the doer!
(383) Even he does not think that definitely Atman is the doer. He thinks he is the body and he as
body is the doer of action.
(384) This is because he has never even heard the statement that "I am the Atman, the witness of all
actions, and I am neutral there; I am Atman."
(385) So, what wonder is there that he thinks that the body is all the spirit that there is! Does not owl
