make a dark night of a clear sunny day?
(386) He who has never seen the brilliant Sun in the sky will most normally think that the Sun's
reflection in a little shallow puddle of water is the Sun; and why should he not?
(387) For him, the Sun is born with the formation of that water pit, Sun dies when the pit dries up
and Sun trembles when little ripples appear on that water!
(388) What wonder is there that so long as the man does not wake up, he thinks that the dream is
real, and the man who does not realize that there is only a rope fears at the delusion that it is a
serpent?
(389) Is it not natural that the moon appears to be yellow to a man suffering from jaundice, and that
the deers see the mirage as real water and are deluded?
(390) Similarly, he who does not even allow a small breeze of wind to bring to his ears the name of
scripture or of Guru; and is living only in his stupidity,
(391) Thinks that there is net of the body which is true and not Atman, just as the foxes think that
clouds are not moving but the moon is moving.
(392) And then with this fixed concept, he is confined in the strong jail of the body-identity, tied
tightly by the rope of Karma. (totality of action and its bondage)
(393) A parrot is caught on a movable metal rung by the hunters. Does not that parrot hold fast to that
rung though it can very well fly away if at all it lets it go?
(394) Thus he who superimposes all the actions (which are functions of the Maya) falsely on the
Atman, is really measuring his sins by millions of measures!
(395) Now just as sea-water cannot touch the fire in the sea, there is a man who is surrounded by all
sorts of actions but is not touched by them.
(396) How is he who lives so aloof, to be recognized? I shall tell you.
(397) This is because while thinking about the signs of a free person, we ourselves become free. Just
as while searching with the help of light, a lost thing is suddenly found,
(398) Or the more we wipe clean the mirror by rubbing ash etc.; clearer is our reflection in it or just
as salt becomes one with water simply by its contact;
(399) Or, in other words, suppose the reflection looks back at the object, it becomes the object and
the seeing itself disappears.
