(246) They say - "When we are born in this world, we should perform ceremonies of worship,
sacrifice in fire, etc., and then earn the sweet happiness in heaven."
(247) These stupid people say that there is nothing else in this world as important as these rituals.
(248) Please see! They perform these rituals under the influence of desires, by thinking about
enjoyments only.
(249) They perform various important and special rituals, do not neglect the code and rules laid
down for them, and being veterans in them, perform those ceremonies.
(250) But they make only one great mistake. They harbour in their mind the desire to attain heaven
and miss or forget the one God who is the presiding deity of all rituals.
(251) It is like preparing beautiful heap of camphor and then putting fire to it; or mixing severe
poison in good food.
(252) It is like kicking the pot of nectar which one has received by sheer turn of good fortune.
Similarly they spoil and desecrate the religion by their desires.
(253) If merit is earned by great efforts, why desire for mundane joys in the petty worldly life? But
these stupid people do not know. How can they yearn for things not easily available?
(254) It is like a housewife who prepares delicious food articles but sells them for some money; The
thoughtless people let go the true religion for enjoyments instead.
(255) Therefore, O Partha, know that only bad intellect reigns in the minds of those people who are
engrossed in arguments in favour of Vedas.
तैगु यिवषया वेदा िन तैगु यो भवाजुन|
िन ो िन यस व थो िनय ग ेम आ मवान्
O Arjuna, Vedas deal with the three Gunas (facets of expression of Prakriti or creation). You
should rise above these three Gunas, be devoid of duality; always firmly established mentally in the
highest and purest Sattwa or spirit, absolutely not worried about your subsistence, and really self-
concentrated. (45)
(256) The Vedas are undoubtedly limited to the three Gunas. Upanishads are therefore Sattwic in
their character.
(257) O, the Great Archer, other scriptures dealing with rituals, and ceremonies are within the limits
of Rajas and Tamas.
