form of existence," is removed, something remains which is in itself–
(413) the state of Atman. Will such a man, who is the master of himself as Atman, ever become
confined to the physical body? My dear, can the great flooding water of the final deluge be
contained in a small brook?
(414) O the son of Pandu, will that sense of All-comprehensive I - ness be ever confined within the
body? Can the Sun be caught by his reflection?
(415) When once butter milk is churned and we take out the butter and again put it in the butter-milk,
will it again be mixed up with it?
(416) And Arjuna, when the fire hidden normally in the wood is out and burning it, will it again be
hidden in that wood?
(417) Or has anyone heard the news that the Sun is of the nature of the night because he comes out of
the night?
(418) Similarly, in the mind of the man where duality of the knower and the known has been totally
annihilated, how can the poor concept that he is the body ever arise?
(419) If the sky wants to go from one place to the other, it is also the same at the other place and
therefore it is already filled everywhere.
(420) Similarly, whatever he intends to do is also his own self! Then in what action can he play the
role of the doer and be involved?
(421) So, his state is similar to the state of the sky which has nowhere to go, like the sea which has
not to flow from one place to the other, or like the pole star which has no scope to move
anywhere.
(422) So, in the case of the man whose sense of being body has immersed in self-knowledge, has
actions taking place in his life only so long as his body survives on.
(423) It is the trees which continue to move a bit more, though the wind ceases to blow, or like the
smell remaining in the casket though camphor is removed from it.
(424) Or like the mood of the song which still remains though the concert is over or like the moisture
in the earth which remains though water has flown over it sometime back.
(425) Or like the evening lights which still loiter in the sky though the Sun has already set,
(426) Or like an arrow having hit the target still goes on further if the force behind the arrow is that
much strong.
