(427) Or like the potter's wheel which keeps moving for sometime though the pot of clay is removed
by the potter and the push is no more being given by him to that wheel.
(428) O Dhananjaya, even after the identification with and the pride of the physical body is gone, the
tendency and nature by which the body was created first, keeps the body functioning for some
time.
(429) It is like the appearance of dream without our purposeful thinking, or the trees growing in a
forest without our sowing their seeds or the illusive buildinglike structures seen in the clouds
without being built by anybody.
(430) Similarly, without any effort by Atman, actions of all kinds are taking place by these five
causes.
(431) By coming together of the five causes and the five purposes, and the force of the inborn past
Karma, many actions are thus taking place.
(432) It is immaterial whether in those processes the whole world is destroyed or a nice new world
is created.
(433) Then just as the Sun does not enquire why lotus flowers bloom in day - time and why lilies
bloom at night;
(434) Or, even though by lightning and thunder storm, the land below may be having faults or be
shattered; by constant pleasant rainfall the land being covered by lush green grass may look very
beautiful;
(435) The sky is not aware of both the conditions. Similarly he who lives in the body but without the
concept that he is the body,
(436) Does not take cognizance of whether the world is born or destroyed by actions taking place
due to causes like the body, etc. (five causes mentioned above.)
(437) However, such a person outwardly appears to be involved in all actions, to those who see
only physical world because they see only by physical eyes.
(438) For example, does not a jackal, by delusion, think that the hay scare-crow kept erect on the
bund wall of a rice field, is a real guard of the field?
(439) People may see and decide whether a mad man is naked or clothed, that mad man has nothing
to do with it. Or the wounds of a warrior who is killed in the war may be counted by others but he
himself (being dead) is not aware of those.
(440) The group of people witnessing 'a satee', may consider with awe the sufferings of the woman
