by fire, but she is not aware of the fire, or her own delicate body, nor of the lamenting onlookers!
(441) Similarly one who has gone beyond the body, in the state of reality, and in whom the observer
and the observed have both gone, does not know what the group of organs is doing.
(442) My dear, people on the shore may see the big waves devouring the earlier small waves in the
surf, and their minds may think so, but-
(443) In that process nothing else is swallowing the water, only water is playing. Similarly for a
man who has reached the state of totality, does not have any other person except himself in the
world, who is to be killed, etc.
(444) For example, in the image of Goddess Chandika she is shown as the golden goddess who has
killed the golden demon by the golden lance.
(445) And the devotee may take her to be the real goddess, etc.; but really all the figures - the
goddess, the lance or the demon; are gold only.
(446) Or in a picture there is a fire painted and a scene of water is painted, but the cloth board is
neither burning due to it nor wet by the water.
(447) Similarly, the body of a free man is functioning only on the half-spent force of earlier
conditioning, but ignorant persons, not knowing this inner state, think that he is a responsible
doer.
(448) And even if all the three worlds are destroyed, one should not say that he has destroyed them.
(449) My dear, how much sense is there in saying that "I will see darkness first by the help of the
light, and then destroy the darkness?" Similarly here is no other person for a man of self-
knowledge, whom he might kill.
(450) Therefore, his consciousness does not know even the inkling of what is sin and what is merit.
This is just like the river Ganges which does not become dirty if a small stream merges into it.
(451) O Dhananjaya, if fire contacts and fights with fire what is going to be burnt? Does sharp
weapon poke itself?
(452) Similarly, what is going to pollute his mind who has no knowledge of any other thing except
himself, in all the actions?
(453) Therefore, to him who has his own Real self as the action, the object of action and also the
doer of the action- all in one,- has no bondage in the actions happening due to these causes like
body etc. mentioned above.
