(454) Jeeva who conceives himself to be the doer, creates the five purposes by skillful use of his
five organs and embarks upon actions;
(455) And by using either just or unjust material, builds the castles of Karma.
(456) But for this great work, Atman is not helping. You may perhaps say that Atman must be a
helping factor in the beginning;
(457) But it is not so. My dear, will the Atman who is only a witness and only of the nature of
knowledge, ever help the urge to act, to rise at all?
(458) Even in respect of those works for which ordinary people try hard, this man has no
disturbance in his peaceful condition.
(459) Therefore, he who has become totally the Atman, there is no jail of these actions which may be
able to keep him in bondage.
(460) But when on the screen of ignorance, there is reverse picture of knowledge then only the well-
known trinity of doing of action, actor and the resultant action comes into existence, (The
knowing, the knower and the known.)
ानं ेयं प र ाता ितिवधा कमचोदना|
करणं कम कतित ितिवधः कमसंगहः
Knowledge, knowable and the knower are the three motivating factors of action and the organs,
the activity and the doer - these are the three which constitute the action (18)
(461) The three things namely knowing, knower and the object to be known are the seed of the world
and action has its source in these three.
(462) And dear Dhananjaya, I shall describe the details of the three. Please listen.
(463) To use a simile, we can say that the Jeeva is the Sun, and the five organs as ears, etc. are his
rays. They fall on the objects which are like lotus buds and open those buds.
(464) Or in other words, Jeeva is the king. His organs are his horses, They gallop into the field of
objects and bring back the plunder of pain and pleasure.
(465) But let these images be set aside. The Jeeva, to whom the knowledge gained through the
organs, brings pain and pleasure and in whose state of sleep it is merged, may be called the
knower.
(466) And O the son of Pandu, the thing about which I have talked just now is to be known as
