"knowing" or "knowledge."
(467) This knowledge is born of ignorance. Immediately it trisects itself.
(468) It puts ahead of it the object to be known, a ball of the aim of knowing something, and brings
up the image of the "knower" with its pride, behind itself.
(469) When thus there is a path of connection between the two, that path is continuously put in use by
the movement of the knowledge.
(470) The path by which this knowledge reaches ahead, comes to an end at the point of the objects of
knowledge; and it gives various names to various objects.
(471) This is the commonly understood "knowledge", no doubt. Now, please listen to the nature of
the knowable, or the object towards which knowledge reaches.
(472) There are five elements by which the knowable, the object of knowledge becomes perceptible.
They are sound, touch, form, smell and taste.
(473) For Example, one fruit of mango is perceived by our organs separately by taste, colour, smell
and touch.
(474) Thus the knowable object though open is understood in five ways, because it is coming in
contact of the knower through five different organs.
(475) And just as the flow of the water in the river ends when it meets the sea, or the growth of a
crop ends when it bears full grain.
(476) Similarly, O the crowned one, the place to where the knowledge runs with the help of organs
and reaches, is called the "knowable or the object of knowledge.
(477) O Dhananjaya, thus I have told you about the knower, the knowledge, and the object of
knowledge. All the actions are born from this trinity.
(478) Now though the elements like, sound, smell, etc. are five, the nature of the knowable is only
two-fold, namely it is either liked or disliked.
(479) Though the knowledge is very meagre, as soon as the knower is shown it, the knower
immediately starts to accept or reject it.
(480) For example, as soon as a fish is seen, the crane jumps swiftly; as soon as a poor man sees a
lot of money, there is sudden movement in him, and as soon as a beautiful woman is seen, a man
of passion is disturbed.
