(481) Further, water naturally runs towards low-lands; black-bees naturally fly towards the fragrant
flowers, and in the evening when it is time to milk a cow, its calf runs towards her.
(482) Or after listening to the attractive stories of pleasures in heaven, like the company of Urvashi
etc., people try to climb up the steps of the staircase towards the heaven through performance of
sacrifices.
(483) Or as soon as the male-pigeon, while flying in the sky, sees a female pigeon he jumps
headlong towards her.
(484) Or as soon as a peacock listens to the thundering of clouds, it starts to dance and jump out of
joy. Similarly the knower having seen the knowable, runs towards it.
(485) Therefore, O son of Pandu, the knower, the known and the knowable are the three main factors
from which all actions arise.
(486) Now if perhaps that object of knowledge is liked by the knower, he cannot suffer a moment's
delay in getting it and enjoying.
(487) On the other hand, if the object of knowledge is not liked by him the time required to reject it
seems to be like ages though actually it is very short.
(488) Suppose a man is surrounded by garlands and serpents at one and the same time, he
experiences the joy as well as fear simultaneously.
(489) Similar is the condition of the knower, when it perceives something which is partly liked and
partly disliked, and he tries hard to accept one thing and reject the other at the same time.
(490) When a general in a war sees another equally powerful warrior in the opposite army, he gets
down from his chariot, and walks towards the other challenging him.
(491) Similarly the knower who was so far only an on-looker, perceiving an object, goes forth and
becomes the actor. This is like a diner impatiently starting to cook food.
(492) Or a black-bee cultivating a garden or a gold-smith becoming himself the touch-stone or the
deity herself starting to build the temple.
(493) Similarly, O the son of Pandu, when the knower uses the organs in the work of accepting or
rejecting the object, the 'knower' becomes the 'doer' or the agent of action.
(494) When the 'knower' thus becomes the 'actor,' he uses the 'knowledge' as 'means' and the
'knowable' naturally becomes the 'action.'
(495) O the intelligent Arjuna, in this way, by the influence of knowledge, there is change of the role
