of the knower. This is like the beauty of the eyes undergoing a change at night-time.
(496) Or like the condition of a prosperous man becoming worst, when destiny changes; or the
phases of moon changing after full moon-night.
(497) Now, when there is the impediment of the role of actor falling upon the knower, by the urges
of the organs, he has certain characteristics, which please listen to.
(498) Intellect, mind, consciousness, (Chitta) and ego are the four facets of the inner organ.
(499) The skin, ears, eyes, tongue, and nose are the five outer organs.
(500) The actor by using the internal organs sizes up the nature of the action and if it is thought that it
may be pleasurable,
(501) He employes all the ten outer organs including the eyes etc., for executing that action.
(502) Then he drives hard the senses until the desired aim is achieved.
(503) On the other hand, if he estimates that the action may be painful, he immediately employes all
the senses and organs in becoming free of that action.
(504) Then he harasses his organs until the very roots of painful conditions are destroyed. It is just
like a king, in order to recover revenue,
(505) Using his servants day and night. When all the organs are active for acceptance or rejection,
the knower should be known as the actor or doer.
(506) And as the actor employes organs like bulls put to yoke, in performance of the action, we call
the organs as the 'means'.
(507) And thus by using this means, the actor does some work, which is called the action, in its
relative scope.
(508) Now just as the mind totally occupies the ornament in the case of a gold-smith or the moon-
light is completely filled in the rays of the Moon or as a creeper is fully filled by its blossom.
(509) Or the brilliance fills the light completely, or sweetness fills the sugarcane completely, or the
space is everywhere in the sky.
(510) So, that thing which is filling all the activities of the knower as actor should be called Karma
or action. O Dhananjaya, there is no gainsaying in this case.
(511) O the greatest, sharpwitted person, in this way I have explained to you, the signs of all the
