three; namely the actor, the action and the means of action.
(512) Here the trinity of the knower, the knowledge, and the knowable is the source of action and the
trinity of the doer, the means and the action is the structure of 'action' (Karma)
(513) Just as smoke is hidden in the fire, a tree in its seed, and desire is always hidden in the mind.
(514) Similarly in the three factors, namely the actor, the action and the means there is hidden the
attraction towards action. This is like gold which is hidden in a gold-mine.
(515) Therefore, O the son of Pandu, where there is a sense of "I am the doer and this is my action"
present, the Atman is far away from all these actions.
(516) Therefore, O the intelligent Arjuna, I again say that "Atman is quite different from the urge to
act. But since you know all this, I better stop here.
ानं कम च कता च ितधैव गुणभेदतः|
पो यते गुणसं याने यथावत् शृणु ता यिप
Knowledge, action and the doer are according to the three qualities in the system of analysis of
all things in the division of the Gunas or qualities, and they are also of three types. You may please
listen to them as they are. (19)
(517) The knowledge, the action and the doer, described above are of three kinds in the three
qualities of the Nature or Prakriti.
(518) Therefore, O Dhananjaya, you should not trust in knowledge, action and the actor, because two
of the three qualities are binding while only one (the Sattwa) is helpful to free you from bondage.
(519) I am going to tell you the various signs of Sattwa and other qualities, which analysis is very
clearly expounded in the Sankhya philosophy.
(520) That Sankhya philosophy which is the ocean of thought, the Moon which causes the lily of self-
knowledge to bloom, and the Emperor of sciences which propound the way of knowledge.
(521) Or that which is the great Sun which differentiates between the day and night like united
Prakriti and a Purusha or female and male principles of original existence.
(522) In this science one can measure up the twenty four elements of the universe and by going
beyond them, one can enjoy the bliss of the ‘‘Beyond.’’
(523) Arjuna, please listen to the analytical explanation of things which that Sankhya science has
given.
