(524) Since the three qualities have by their powers filled this vast canvas of the universe with
different colours,
(525) Since the greatness of these qualities is such that by their power everything from the God
Brahma to the small insect is classified into three categories.
(526) I shall tell you first about the knowledge by which the whole creation has been caught into
three qualities.
(527) Because if the vision is clear everything can be seen clearly and similarly when pure
knowledge is attained, then only all things seem pure.
(528) The Lord Shrikrishna, the final resting place of aloneness, thus told Arjuna. So, please listen
to that pure Sattwic knowledge, about which I am going to tell you presently.
सवभूतेषु येनैक
ं भावम ययमी ते|
अिवभ ं िवभ े षु त ानं िवि साि वकम्
Know now that Sattwic knowledge by which a man sees the one imperishable nucleus in the
different beings, which is not divided though it dwells in the variety of beings." (20)
(529) Dear Arjuna, that Sattwic or pure knowledge is the best knowledge in the rising of which, the
knowable and the knower merge into unity.
(530) Just as the Sun cannot see the darkness, or the sea does not know what rivers are or our own
shadow cannot be taken in hand,
(531) Similarly this knowledge does not recognize all the things from the Lord Shiva as the greatest
and grass blade as the smallest, as different beings;
(532) It is like this- If you see a picture by touching it by hand, its colours etc. cannot be perceived;
if you try to wash salt by water, it only dissolves, and salt does not remain in hand or if you wish
to see the dream after you are awake you cannot have it.
(533) Similarly when by this knowledge you try to see the knowable, the knower, the knowledge and
the object to be known- all these three do not exist separately.
(534) For example, it is not that gold is divided and ornaments as different objects are manufactured
from it, because ornaments are gold only; similarly waves of water are not made by sifting water
or straining it in a strainer and taken out from it as these waves are water only.
(535) Thus, that knowledge before which the object does not remain separate as a visible thing,
should be known as Sattwic or pure knowledge.
