(536) For example, if we see the mirror, we see ourselves as reflected in the glass, the mirror as
such does not become important to our vision; similarly this knowledge is such that if the knower
wishes to see or know something it disappears and only the knower remains.
(537) I say again that this is the Sattwic knowledge which is the very sacred temple of the goddess
of Liberation. Now, please listen to the nature of Rajasic knowledge.
पृथ वेन तु य ानं नानाभावान् पृथि वधान्|
वेि सवषु भूतेषु त ानं िवि राजसम्
Know that the knowledge by which a man knows the various qualities and characteristics of
various objects and beings everywhere, and categorizes them, is called Rajasic Knowledge. (21)
(538) O Partha, know that the knowledge which uses differences as a means to understand things is
the knowledge of Rajas quality.
(539) It approaches all objects with a view to analyse and distinguish and brings variegated nature
to the information which is then called knowledge of what is what.
(540) It is just like the sleeping state of man which makes him forget the reality surrounding him and
creates the baseless complications of objects in dream.
(541) This knowledge shows the three worlds of waking, dreaming and sleeping states in the false
abyss of delusion, to the Jeeva, beyond the precincts of his own self-knowledge.
(542) Just as a child does not know the gold in the ornaments but looks at the ornament only, this
knowledge does not know the unity hidden in the apparent varieties of names and forms.
(543) Simple-minded persons do not become aware of the earth hidden in the earthen pots, and the
fire in the lamps.
(544) An ordinary man looks at the cloth but not so easily at the thread.
(545) In this way that point of view sees differences and the unity remains out of sight,
(546) And then fuel decides the category of fire, the flower becomes important than the fragrance,
and the changing ripples and flickering reflections make men say that the Moon is dancing;
(547) Thus the various kinds of articles are categorized according to their properties and
compositions, names and shapes. This is the kind of knowledge which is called Rajasic
knowledge.
(548) Now I shall tell you the signs of Tamasic knowledge which is to be avoided just as the
