(559) Whenever he sees water, he does not care to check its purity or impurity. He only says, "All
right! Does this quench my thirst? Then I will drink it!"
(560) Same is the case of food. No thought is given to see whether it is good food or prohibited, safe
or unsafe. "That is pure which tastes good to the palate!"
(561) He thinks that all that a woman is, is only an object to be used to satisfy the skin's desire for
pleasure!
(562) He thinks that only he is my relative who is helpful to my selfish needs. This knowledge does
not value kinship. Such thoughts are the products of Tamasic knowledge.
(563) Just as everything is food for death and everything is fuel for fire, so everything is his own
property, the whole world is his possession – for a man of Tamasic knowledge.
(564) In this way, he who thinks that all the world is an object of his own passion, gets only one fruit
and that is filling his belly.
(565) Just as sea is the only aim and resort for rain-water, so stomach is the only objective for
everything done through Tamasic knowledge.
(566) Not only this, but in that knowledge, there is absolutely no thought that there is something like
heaven and hell and one should try to avoid hell and reach heaven.
(567) The intellect of such a man of Tamas quality has no reach beyond the concept that the lump of
the physical body is Atman, and god is just a simple stone image.
(568) This knowledge says that at the time of death, Atman also dies together with all his activities;
so who is there to reap the fruit of his actions?
(569) If somebody says that god is all powerful, and god makes man reap the fruits of his action, his
knowledge says, "If it is so, why not sell the God and get the benefit?
(570) It also says that if the stone gods in a temple in a village are the controllers of the universe,
then why are the mountains themselves not saying anything?
(571) So supposing that god is believed to exist, he simply exists as a stone, and Atman is nothing
but the physical body.
(572) This knowledge declares as false everything about sin and merit, which people talk about and
decides that all objects are only to be consumed like forest fire.
(573) This knowledge perceives as true only that which is seen by the eyes and for which the organs
are hungry.
