(574) In short, O Partha, when such train of thought goes on increasing, then just as the smoke rings
go up in the sky and disappear.
(575) Or the plant of Bhend-tree grows and becomes useless and is broken-up.
(576) Or useless are the shoots at the end of sugarcane, a eunouch or a cactus-shrub.
(577) Or thoughtless is the mind of child, dangerous the money in the house of a robber, and the soft
growth of lobes at the neck of the sheep is purposeless,
(578) So is useless this knowledge which is called Tamas by me, and it is really hapless.
(579) Even then I call it knowledge, because even the physical eyes of a blind man are called eyes
and they look like eyes.
(580) Similarly the outer ears of a deaf-man are good in shape, or wine is called a drink, though it is
prohibitted, so this name as knowledge is simply a fictitious name.
(581) In short the knowledge through this Tamasic quality is not really knowledge. It is darkness of
the open eyes.
(582) O the great listener Arjuna, in this way, I have explained to you three types of knowledge
according to three qualities.
(583) Similarly actions of the doer are also divided into three parts according to the knowledge of
the doer.
(584) So, just as water which meets a stream in its path takes the direction of that stream in flowing
further, similarly action also goes on by the three paths of the three types of knowledge.
(585) And thus only one action becomes three-fold because of the three types of knowledge, out of
which please listen to the signs of the Sattwic type of action.
िनयतं संगरिहतमराग ेषतः क
ृ तम्|
अफलपे सुना कम य साि वकमु यते
Action done by a person without desire to get the result of it, which action is his ordained duty, is
without attachment and not provoked by like or dislike, is a Satwic action. (23)
(586) Action which presents itself as duty according to our stage in life and status in the classified
society, and which embraces us like a faithful devoted wife may embrace her husband.
(587) Action which behoves us as the sandalwood paste decorates a dark beautiful body or a
cosmetic cream enhances the beauty of a young woman.
