(588) That is our routine and natural action. It is itself right action. When it is further turned and done
as occasional duty, it is like gold added with fragrance.
(589) And the mother works hard physically and with her soul and takes all the care of her child but
is not bored in that activity.
(590) Similarly action should be performed with all the heart and soul, but without looking for its
fruit, it should be placed in the Brahman only by renounciation.
(591) When serving food to the son or husband, a woman does not worry whether any food will
remain for herself or not, in the same way, we should have our attitude while doing good deeds.
(592) Then that action does not cause bondage by sorrow if it does not become successful and does
not cause pride if it is successful.
(593) O Dhananjaya, when action is done in this skillful manner, it is called of Sattwic quality.
(594) Now, I shall be telling you the signs of Rajasic action. Please do not be inattentive.
य ु कामे सुना कम साहंकारे ण वा पुनः|
िकयते बहलायासं तदाजसमुदा तम्
But the action which is done by a man who desires to get what fruit he wants for it, which is also
done with pride, and which involves great hardships, is called Rajasic action (24)
(595) Just as a foolish man does not speak a good word with his parents in his home, but has great
respect for all the other people in the outside world, which is also false;
(596) Or just as a man never sprinkles even a little water on the Tulsi plant but pours milk at the
roots of the grapevine; (Tulsi does not bear fruit but grapes are fruits which he wants)
(597) Similarly he does not even think of getting up from his lazy reclining, to do his rightful daily or
occasional duty.
(598) But if perchance there is some lucrative job at hand, he does not mind even if he suffers heavy
physical labour in it;
(599) My dear, while sowing seeds which are sure to yield a good crop, no one says- "Enough of all
this trouble of sowing seeds;" similarly when there is definite benefit of very heavy interest, he
does not hesitate putting in money generously;
(600) And just as an alchemist who has the magic stone Parees with him, always prospers even if
initially he spends all his money in the purchase of iron.
