(601) Similarly this 'doer' who is Rajasic, keeps one eye on the possible benefit in the future,
undertakes many selfish actions and though they are many and heavy, he does not mind at all.
(602) Being entangled by hope for benefit, he performs all selfish actions exactly according to the
rules of their execution.
(603) And makes a great show, proudly makes publicity that he is the man who has done all these
great works and takes their credit.
(604) And then being puffed up, he does not give any respect to his father or his Guru, just as when a
disease is really fatal, it is not cured by any medicine.
(605) Whatever activities such a man does with the desire for fruit and with pride, very tenaciously
making great efforts,
(606) And that also in great difficulties he does everything as if his very survival is dependant on it,
as a rope-walker performs his feat in public at the risk of his life.
(607) Just as a rat goes on digging through a mountain to find a particle of grain, or a frog fathoms
deep water with a hope to get some water herbs to eat.
(608) Or just to have some money, a snake-charmer goes from house to house, carrying the burden of
a snake on his shoulder! But perhaps all this exhausting work seems to be pleasant to some
persons!
(609) What of these examples? White ants carve earth down to the very depths of nether world just
to find something to eat. Similar are the hardships people undergo just with a hope to enjoy
pleasures in the other world!
(610) This type of selfish action which is full of troubles should be known as Rajasic action. Now
please listen to the sign of Tamasic action.
अनुबंधं यं िहंसामनपे य च पौ षम्|
मोहादार यते कम त ामसमुदा तम्
That action which is undertaken through sheer ignorance without counting the upshoot, loss to
oneself, injury to others and one's own capacity, is declared as Tamasic. (25)
(611) That action which is the home of blame and the fulfillment of negative and destructive way of
life is Tamasic action.
(612) That action which leaves no residue just like a line drawn on water;
