(613) Or if liquid poridge of rice is churned, or if ash is blown to make fire, or if sand is put into an
oil-mill nothing is gained.
(614) Or to winnow the husk, or to trust a dagger in the sky or to put a noose to catch wind.
(615) Just as all this is futile, the action which becomes futile, is Tamas.
(616) And not only that action is futile, it is further harmful if committed after being luckily born in
this precious human body, giving all sorts of troubles to others.
(617) For example, suppose some thorny instrument is scratched along the petals of a lotus, the
petals are no doubt torn, but the thorns are also slightly affected;
(618) Or little moth hates the flame of a lamp, burns itself in it, and also by extinguishing the lamp,
renders the eyes of all people useless.
(619) When action is so dangerous, that it may deprive the doer of all his possessions or even cause
his death, that action is definitely aimed at hurting others.
(620) A fly is swallowed and it dies in that; but at the same time it causes the man who swallows it
to vomit all the food. Action which reminds us of this double trouble,
(621) And also that action which is done without thinking whether one has the ability to do it or not,
(622) What is one's capacity, how great is the scope and involvement of the work to be done –
(623) Is not at all considered, through thoughtlessness, and a great ballyhoo is made of a great
project to be undertaken,
(624) Is the action like the fire which burns down our own house and spreads to other houses or the
sea which crosses its own shoreline and drowns other areas also.
(625) And then that fire does not hesitate at anything and that sea does not stop in inundating all and
every waterway and burrows, making one complete water level everywhere.
(626) Similarly if in such an action no thought is given whether it is good or bad, helpful of harmful,
and is performed ruthlessly destroying our own people as well as others, it is definitely to be
known as Tamas action.
(627) O Arjuna, I have thus explained to you how action is divided into three types according to the
three qualities of Sattwa etc.
(628) And while doing these actions, the Actor or Doer himself is divided into three types.
