(629) This triple division of the nature of the doer is just like the nature of achievement in human life
though essentially is a matter of "achieving", becomes divided into four categories according to
bachelorhood, role of a householder, a Wanaprastha state and the state of renunciation.
(630) Out of these three types of doers, I am going to tell you about the Sattwic one, to which you
should pay full attention by your mind.
मु स गोऽनहंवादी धृ यु साहसमि वतः|
िस यिस योिनिवकारः कता साि वक उ यते
The doer who is free of attachment, does not have pride, but is equipped with patience,
cheerfulness etc. and not distrurbed by the success or lack of success in the action is called Sattwic
doer. (26)
(631) Now just as the sandal-wood tree has branches which spread, and grow straight because they
have not to bear any fruit.
(632) Or just as the life's purpose is fulfilled in the case of betel-leaf creeper without its having
fruit, he who does perform his routine and occasional duties without hope for fruit,
(633) Does not find his actions useless by reason of not having fruit, because, O Arjuna, do fruits
bear further fruits? (His performances of actions is itself the fruit).
(634) Further, just as clouds of the rainy-season pour rain profusely, but they are not proud of it,
similarly he does everything with great care and respect.
(635) But he has no touch of pride and all his actions are meant for pouring them up on Paramatman
like these clouds.
(636) For this, he takes care to catch the right time, find the right clean place and to take proper
decisions according to the scriptures as regards the actual execution of actions.
(637) To concentrate his total consciousness, not to let mind run astray towards the fruit, and even to
accept any hard rules for it.
(638) Further, he makes every effort to bring in himself and develop the quality of sustaining
firmness of determination, necessary for such hard works.
(639) He does not get entangled into the physical pleasures while he is performing these actions.
(640) His laziness and sleep leave him totally, he is not troubled though hungry, his mind remaining
undisturbed, and he is not much anxious about pampering his physical body by comforts.
