(641) Even in these conditions, he has enhanced enthusiasm in doing these duties, just as gold when
subjected to fire treatment, no doubt loses some weight by the dross being burnt, but it improves
its quality.
(642) If there is real devotion to God, such a man thinks nothing about his life. My dear, does the
woman, who is going to be a 'Satee' ever fear that her body is going to be burnt?
(643) Dear Dhananjaya, similarly will a man, who is completely eaten-up by great urge of being one
with his beloved Atman, ever care about any discomfort his body experiences?
(644) Therefore, the more there is loss of interest in enjoyment of worldly objects and the more there
is dissolution of the pride about physical body, the more is his joy in the performance of these
right actions.
(645) In the case of this man, who does his duties, it so happens sometimes that his action is left
incomplete.
(646) Even then just like a boulder which has fallen down a slope of a mountain does not mind how
slowly or fast it falls down to the low land, he does not lose his balance of mind, and is not
unhappy.
(647) Nor does he shout with joy if that action is accomplished successfully.,
(648) O the son of Pandu, the man who does all his duties taking all these precautions, should be
called the Sattwic doer.
(649) Now O Dhananjaya, the main sign of a Rajasic doer of actions is that he is inwardly full of
worldly desires.
रागी कमफलपे सुलु धो िहंसा मकोऽशुिचः|
हषशोकाि वतः कता राजसः प रक िततः
The doer who is having attraction and a desire to get fruit of his action, who is of violent nature
and unclean habits, and is affected by sorrow or joy is well-known as a Rajasic actor or doer. (27)
(650) There is a heap of refuse in the dirtiest place outside the village and in the cemetery, all kinds
of dirty things are spread everywhere.
(651) Similar to these a man who becomes a place where all the sins of the whole world are
washed.
(652) And, therefore, he opens up a work-shop of such actions which are sure to bring fruits.
