(663) Just as the fire does not know how things coming into its contact suffer while burning.
(664) Just as a sharp weapon does not know how by its edge, bodies are cut, or just as the poison
does not know how it has killed others.
(665) Similarly, O Dhananjaya, he who does not care how he is harassing others and continues to act
ruthlessly,
(666) And does not care how great destruction is resulted by his actions just as a hurricane does not
know the devastation it has caused.
(667) And O Dhananjaya, his intention and action are so unrelated to each other, that even a mad
man is at a loss what to mean by his actions.
(668) Just like a cow-flea which becomes fat with the blood of the animal on whose stomach it has
attached itself, this man lives on the pleasures from the sensually intoxicating objects which are
received through his organs.
(669) His behaviour is as inconsistent as a child which laughs one moment and cries the next
moment without reason.
(670) He is a slave of surrounding pleasurable objects in Nature and has no thought about what is
proper and what is improper. He is puffed up by his carnal satisfaction just as a big refuse dump.
(671) Because of his pride he does not bow even before God and he is more stiff by stubbornness
than a mountain.
(672) His mental attitude is just as beaten and pounded a path as that frequented by robbers, and his
eyes look with cunning as if taken on loan from a prostitute!
(673) In short, his whole body and mind is knitted by deception and his life is like a gambler's den
on a street corner.
(674) When one looks at him, he appears as a whole community place of selfish tribals, and
therefore none should go near him.
(675) Just as salt added to milk makes it unfit for drinking, his mind becomes rotten at the sight of
good deeds done by anybody.
(676) Just like a cold article thrown into fire suddenly becomes part of fire only.
(677) Or, O the crowned on, just like good food eaten by us becomes dirty only.
(678) Similalry if any good deed is known by him, in his mind it becomes spoiled and bad and what
