he says about it is nothing but dirt.
(679) He transforms virtues into vices and turns nectar into poison like a serpent.
(680) And if luckily some such action presents itself which is beneficial in this world and ensures
happiness in the other world,
(681) He is immediately prone to sleep and when any evil action is to be done, his sleep runs away
as if trying to avoid its touch!
(682) Just as in the season when mangoes or grapes are ready a crow may have sourness in his
mouth, or in daytime an owl becomes blind.
(683) When there is chance to do a really socially helpful deed, he becomes very lazy, and when any
wrong deed is to be done, his laziness is very obedient to him.
(684) He nurses grievance and anger in his mind like an ocean having great fire within him.
(685) Just as in the fine of cowdung etc., or excreta or sheep, there is always smoke or just as the gas
in the abdomen is having bad smell, his mind is always rotten with jealousy.
(686) And O the great warrior! He starts great selfish business projects which may be far reaching in
time beyond the end of Ages.
(687) He is worried about far-off things, but if there is something good to be done just now, he does
not move even a blade of grass.
(688) So, if you see such a heap of sin, in the society, you may definitely know that he is the doer of
Tamasic Nature.
(689) O the greatest gentleman!, I have given you the description of the three types of action, the
actor and the knowledge.
बु ेभदं धृते ैव गुणति तिवधं शृणु|
पो यमानमशेषेण पृथ वेन धनंजय
O Dhananjaya, now listen to the three types of intellect and the concepts according to the three
Gunas or qualities, which are being described totally, separately. (29)
(690, 691) Now intellect is a mirror in which Atman looks at his own beauty by donning the clothes
of ‘enticement’ and ornaments of ‘doubting attitude’ in the town of ‘ignorance’. This intellect is of
three types in its function.
(692) My dear, is there anything in this world, which is not divided into three types by these
