qualities of Sattwa etc.?
(693) Just as there is no wood which is not having fire in it, so also there is not a single thing which
is not having triple nature.
(694) Therefore, intellect is also triple and the courage known as Dhruti is also triple.
(695) Now this triple nature of the intellect and the courage will be explained together with the
various signs of each.
(696) But O Dhananjaya, out of the two, I will first describe the three types of intellect.
(697) O brave warrior, every being who is born in this worldly life has three paths open before him
which are the best, the mediocre and the lowest.
(698) These paths become troublesome to the Jeevas because of the fear of bondage. These paths
are, first, the ‘routine and occasional, proper duty,’ the second is ‘selfish action’ and the third is
‘prohibited action.’
पवृि ं च िनवृि ं च कायाकाय भयाभये|
ब धं मो ं च या वेि बुि ः सा पाथ साि वक
Dear Partha, the intellect which knows what is extrovert and introvert movement of mind, what is
to be done and what is not to be done and what is bondage and what is freedom, is a Sattwic intellect.
(30)
(699) Now, when we consider what is to be done, the best action is that which is in keeping with our
stage in life and status in the society and what is presenting itself in the natural course of life.
(700) But that action should be performed having only one aim of self-realization, with an eagerness
like that of a thirsty man drinking water.
(701) When it is so performed, it releases one from the fear of rebirth and makes liberation easier.
(702) One who acts in this way is free of the fear of worldly life and while performing actions also,
he is lucky to be a real seeker.
(703) Further the intellect which is having firm conviction, that liberation is itself implied in such
action,
(704) He says– "Why should I not jump into this type of routine action by per-forming the extrovert
activities on the base of inward aloofness of detachment?
(705) Just as a thirsty man gets fresh by water, a person fallen in a flood saves himself by swimming
