or by sunrays one can find way out of a dark deep well;
(706) Or if proper diet and medicine is given, even a man on the point of death can recover, or a fish
which suddenly gets itself into water,
(707) Has no further fear of death. Just like these examples, the man who performs his duties with
that detachment becomes liberated.
(708) This intellect is clear about what is to be done, and is knowing thoroughly the nature of things
not to be done.
(709) In the case of those actions, which are selfish or prohibitted, and which are branded as evil
actions to be avoided,
(710) This intellect turns back its outgoing force from such prohibitted actions, which are full of the
fear of getting caught in the chain of birth and death.
(711) My dear, one cannot enter fire, one cannot dare jump into an unfathomable pool of water and
one cannot hold in hand red hot piece of iron.
(712) Or one cannot dare to disturb a venomous cobra who is angrily hissing or one cannot
knowingly step into a bush where a tiger is sitting.
(713) Similarly his intellect is tremendously afraid when some prohibitted action confronts.
(714) This intellect knows very well that committing of such evil action definitely creates bondage,
just as death is certain if poisoned food is eaten.
(715) Then that intellect uses the supreme skill of withdrawal and retreating within when such action
is presenting itself by circumstances.
(716) So the intellect which weighs the desirable and undesirable actions and examines the outgoing
tendency of mind and the withdrawing tendency very carefully.
(717) O Arjuna, you should know that such intellect is Sattwic, which takes clear decision in respect
of good and bad actions.
यया धममधम च काय चाकायमेव च|
अयथाव पजानाित बुि ः सा पाथ राजसी
Dear Partha, the intellect which does not know properly what is religious and what is not
religious and what is to be done and what is not to be done, is of Rajasic quality. (31)
(718) Now in the town of cranes, the mixture of milk and water is taken, (but they cannot separate it
