as the swan does) and a blind man knows no difference between day and night.
(719) Or a black-bee delicately takes the honey from a flower and he is the same black-bee, who
may carve a hard-wood (the black-bee remains the same).
(720) Similarly the intellect which is Rajasic, does not distinguish between the proper actions
according to religion and prohibited ones.
(721) For example, a man who purchases pearls without properly examining them by critically
looking at them, is most likely to get fake pearls. Real pearls are seldom in his lot.
(722) Similarly the prohibited action is avoided if it does not luckily come along to be executed;
otherwise this intellect generally mixes-up indiscriminately the good and bad actions.
(723) This intellect accepts all actions without consideration of purity or otherwise, just as a man
unwisely calls all people for dinner without caring whether they are deserving it or not. This
intellect is Rajasic.
अधम धमिमित या म यते तमसाऽऽवृता|
सवाथान् िवपरीतां बुि ः सा पाथ तामसी
O Partha, the intellect which thinks that irreligious things are religious, which is covered by
darkness (of ignorance), and knows all things quite contrary to what they are, is the Tamasic
intellect (32)
(724) The road by which the king goes is a path to be avoided by the thiefs; and the day– time is like
a night for the demons;
(725) An unfortunate man thinks the hidden treasure, only as a heap of coal. To a Jeeva the real
nature of Atman is not existing at all.
(726) Similarly the intellect which thinks that a good religious action is a sin and sees the true things
as false ones.
(727) The intellect that gives a twisted shape to all straight things and turns virtue into vices,
(728) The intellect which decides as wrong whatever the Vedas uphold as right and proper,
(729) Such intellect should be considered as Tamasic one, O son of Pandu, without consulting
anybody. How can this intellect which is like a dark night, be considered auspicious for religions
actions?
(730) Thus, O Arjuna, who are like a Moon which causes the lotus of self -knowledge to bloom; I
have told you the three types of intellect clearly.
