enticements, till they are offered to the great emperor who is Atman,
(744) Then that self-esteem is Sattwic, O Arjuna"- So said the spouse of Goddess Laxmi; to Arjuna.
यया तु धमकामाथान् धृ या धारयतेऽजुन|
पसंगेन फलाकां ी धृितः सा पाथ राजसी
O Arjuna, the firmness of self-esteem by which a man fulfils his achievements as regards religion,
desire for enjoyment and earning money etc. (all mundane achievement) and when he is desirous of
fruits because of attachment, it is Rajasic by nature. (34)
(745) The Jeeva residing in the physical body, enjoys his religious as well as other activities for
sensual enjoyments and earning money, hoping for happiness in this world as well as the other
world.
(746) The determination on the strength of which such Jeeva conducts his business of various
activities in the boat of religion, has desire for sensual enjoyments and desire for money, in the
sea of decisions and doubts,
(747) The determination on the strength of which he undergoes tremendous hard work for reaping
four-fold results from the sowing of the capital of karma –
(748) That firmness, O Partha, should be known as Rajasic; now listen to the Tamas quality of
personal determination which is the third.
यया व नं भयं शोक
ं िवषादं मदमेव च|
न िवमु चित दुमधा धृितःसा पाथ तामसी
O Partha, the determination by which the man of spoiled intellect does not free himself from the
dreams, fears, sorrow, depression and sullenness is of Tamas quality. (35)
(749) When the very nature of this type of Tamas is made up of the lowest level of tendencies, just
as a coal is totally black inside and out.
(750) How people call it as a "Quality" or "Guna" (the other meaning of Guna is virtue.) when it is
so degraded? Then why should we not call a demon as a saint?
(751) The planet which is the most firy among all the planets is called "Mangal" (Which means
"Good omen". Similarly Tamas is called a quality or Guna which implies that it is a virtue, which
is a misnomer.)
(752) The man who is the very statue of all vices welded together,
