(753) Holds laziness fondly near his bosom and, therefore, sleep does not leave
him just as sufferings do not get away from a confirmed sinner.
(754) And just as the hardness never leaves a stone, fear does not leave him because of his constant
apprehension that he may lose his body, his only property.
(755) Just as the sin is always tethered in the house of a treacherous thankless person, sorrow is his
companion, day and night, because of his attachment to things.
(756) He holds fast the discontent, all the time and therefore, depression is having bosom friendship
with him.
(757) Just as garlic is never free from its pungent smell and a man who does not observe diet
carefully is not cured of his ailment, this man is also not free from disgruntleness.
(758) As he is always adding more force to his youthfulness, his possessions and his passion, he is
always made a resort by arrogant sullenness.
(759) Just as fire does not become free of heat, a poisonous cobra never forgets the man who has
hurt him, and fear which is everywhere does not leave the world;
(760) Just as death never forgets the body, similarly, sullenness never leaves a man who is of
Tamasic nature.
(761,762) So, the firmness of self-esteem on the strength of which these vices like laziness, sleep,
fear, dreams, sorrow and depression continue to prevail in the nature of a man, should be known
as Tamasic-so said Shrikrishna, the Lord of the world.
(763) Thus the intellect first takes a decision to act, in accordance with its three types and these
three kinds of self-firmness take these actions to completion.
(764) He further said- "The path is seen clearly by the light of the Sun, and feet walk on that path, but
it is by the will of the man that the action of walking takes place.
(765) Similar to this example, the intellect shows the kinds of action to be performed, the organs
which are means, execute these actions, but the determination, the firmness which is required to
do those deeds is of three types-
(766) Which I have upto now described to you. Now the three-fold Action is done by this process.
(767) And the fruit which is pleasure or happiness which is the result of this action is of course of
three types.
(768) Now I shall tell you in flawless words the way in which the fruit of happiness becomes three-
