(778) The root of the sandalwood tree becomes avoidable because of the serpents coiled around it;
Treasure which is hidden becomes fearsome by the ghost guarding it;
(779) The sweet-looking heavenly pleasures become unreachable easily because of the exacting
performances of sacrifices required to be done for it, or childhood, otherwise innocent and joyful
becomes a drudgery because of various ailments.
(780) Or we have to tolerate the preliminary smoke before light of the lamp is available or
sometimes medicine tastes bitter to the tongue.
(781) Similarly, O Pandava, at the entrance of that happiness, we have to go through the hard work
of self-control as to the mind and self-control as to the actions.
(782) Then such acute desirelessness about everything arises in the mind that it destroys the
compound wall of the world and the heavens.
(783) By sharp and penetrating thoughts of discrimination which we hear and by observance of
exacting vows etc.; the intellect is as if shattered;
(784) The streams of the vital breath and the Apana wind are swallowed in the mouth of Sushumna,
the central path of Divine power and this is the trial at the beginning only.
(785) Like the estrangement done between the two male and female birds Chakrawaka, or like the
calf pulled away from its mother's udder, or a beggar driven away from the dinner once given to
him.
(786) Or like the only child of mother is snatched away by death from her; or like a fish taken out of
water,
(787) The same severe sorrow is experienced while organs try to leave the house of objects of their
enjoyment, which one has to tolerate and suffer with sheer detachment and apathy.
(788) This is the havoc of severe internal crisis and calamities, but at the end, one gets the sweet
nectar of liberation, just as Gods got the nectar in the end when they churned the ocean of milk.
(789) If this poison of ascetic efforts is swallowed by the Lord Shankara which means the great
courage, then this joy can be experienced as if it is the happy festival of liberation.
(790) My dear, raw grapes are so acutely sour that even an ember might be less troublesome, but
how sweet are the grapes when they are ripe!
(791) Similarly when the desirelessness, detachment, etc. become mature by the light of self-
knowledge, all the illusory duality of names and forms goes into oblivion.
