(812) And O the crowned one! All these three are interwoven in the three qualities of Sattwa (piety)
Rajas (Activity) and Tamas (Inertia or laziness), just like a piece of cloth by threads.
न तदि त पृिथ यां वा िदिव देवेषु वा पुनः|
स वं पक
ृ ितजैमु ं यदेिभः यात् ितिभगुणैः
There is no being on earth or in the heaven or even among the gods or anywhere else, which is
free from these three qualities born of Nature. (40)
(813) Therefore, there is nothing within the field of Prakriti, which is not bound by the three
qualities such as Sattwa etc.; either in the heaven or this region of death (this world.)
(814) Is there a rug without its woolen hair? Is there a clod without earth? Is there wave without
water?
(815) Similarly the nature of all the beings is not such as there is possibility of its being created
without the three qualities.
(816) Therefore, please know it definitely that this universe is made up of these three qualities.
(817) It is these three qualities by which the three gods Brahma, the Vishnu and the Shiva, arranged
various duties for each of the four classes of society, and have created the three worlds of this
visible existence.
बा ण ितयिवशां शूदाणां च परंतप|
कमािण पिवभ ािन वभावपभवैगुणैः
Actions are separated according to the qualities which are inborn in the very nature of things for
the the Brahmins, Warrior classes, Merchants and the Shoodras, O, the warrior who give trouble to
many other warriors! (41)
(818) Now if you ask what are the four classes, I am going to tell you. Brahmins are the foremost
among them.
(819) The Kshatriyas and Vaishyas are the other two who should be considered equal to Brahmins
as they are eligible for reciting Vedas and doing all the rituals according to them.
(820) The fourth class is that of Shoodras. He is not authorized to recite Vedas etc. but his welfare is
dependent on the three classes mentioned above.
(821) And as their life was intimately connected with the other three, Shoodras were counted as a
separate class like these, the fourth one.
