(822) Just as a well-to-do man honours the thread in a garland of flowers and enjoys the fragrance
together with the thread, similarly, Vedas have accepted Shoodras with the other three classes of
"twice-born" people.
(823) O Partha, such is the system or arrangement of four classes. Now we will describe their duties
separately-
(824) By doing which duties, all of them escape from the cutting scissors of birth and death and
attain self-realization.
(825) These duties are distributed among the four classes according to the three qualities of Sattwa,
etc.; which are parts of the Nature (Prakriti)
(826) It is like the property of the father being distributed among his sons, or the various paths
clearly seen in the sunlight followed by various people, or like various jobs allotted by the
employer to his various servants.
(827) Thus by the Qualities belonging to the Mother Nature the duties are classified and allotted to
the four classes.
(828) Thus, Sattwa quality is given to each of the two classes of Brahmins and the Kshatriyas, half
of itself.
(829) Vaishyas are given half of Sattwa and half of Rajas, and Shoodras have got half of Rajas
mixed with Tamas.
(830) O the wise Arjuna, know that in this manner, the single human society has been classified into
four categories by the three qualities.
(831) Now, as a light shows us our things which are otherwise hidden in the dark, so, Vedas show
us our duties which are coloured by these qualities and separated.
(832) O the possessor of auspicious virtues, now I shall tell you what are these duties according to
the classes. Please listen.
शमो दम तपः शौचं◌ः ाि तराजवमेव च|
ानं िव ानमाि त यं ब कम वभावजम्
Subjugation of the mind and senses, penance, external and internal cleanliness, capacity to forgive
faults of others, simple straightenss of mind, senses and behaviour, knowledge of mundane things and
spiritual wisdom and of Vedas, faith in God and his powers and in the realization of the truth relating
to Brahman- all these constitute the natural duties of Brahmin. (42)
