of all knowledge of scriptures and or meditation, and becomes one with the God's abstract
Nature, without a trace of any doubt.
(848) This is Vidnyana, the eighth quality which is in such a man; and further the ninth quality which
is faith has the following signs.
(849, 850) I call faith to that quality by which a man respectfully accepts each path of holiness which
the scriptures have authorized, just as people honour the currency with trust, on which there is the
figure of the king imprinted. That action is true in which this ninth quality is present.
(851) Thus such action or duty in which all these nine qualities like 'Shama' and 'Dama' are evident,
should be known as natural duty of Brahmins.
(852) He who gets this garland of nine jewels becomes the ocean of nine virtues, just as the Sun
wears his light without taking out any thing from over his body.
(853) Or just as the Champak tree is enriched by its own flower-buds, or the Moon shines in her
own light, or sandalwood is fragrant by its own cool smell;
(854) Similarly this garland studded with nine jewels is the clear and natural ornament of a Brahmin,
which never leaves the body of (the consciousness of) the Brahmin.
(855) Now, O Dhananjaya, I shall tell you the duty or action which is naturally appropriate for
Kshatriya (Warrior class), which please hear with alert and intelligent mind.
शौय तेजो धृितदा यं यु े चा यपलायनम्|
दानमी रभाव ातं कम वभावजम्
Valour, fearlessness, brightness, firmness, cleverness, not running away from battle,
generousness, and a sense of superiority, all these constitute natural qualities of behaviour of
Kshatriya. (43)
(856) Now just as the Sun does not expect anybody to help him shine, or a lion does not solicit
backing from any other animal,
(857) Similarly when one is a self-made brave man, and shows his power without anybody's help,
that virtue is valour, which is the first quality (of Kshtriya).
(858) By the light of the Sun, all the crores of stars become invisible, but even if they would try
together with the Moon, they are not able to overshadow the Sun;
(859) Similarly when one surprises the whole world by one's brilliance, but one does not get
disturbed by anything,
