that highest perfection. (45)
(885) O the intelligent One, the various classes have their own proper duties just as various organs
are having their proper sense-objects like sound, smell, touch etc. which befit them.
(886) It is like the natural flow of water falling from the clouds towards the river; and water from
the river has the only aim of meeting the sea.
(887) Therefore, actions which are in keeping with the duties ordained for the various stages in life
and the status in the class-society, are befitting the respective classes just as the fairness of the
skin befits a man who is fair-skinned.
(888) Therefore, O the great warrior, one should have a determination in his own intellect to
perform the proper duty according to the rules given in the scriptures.
(889) Just as we get our own jewellery tested and examined by an expert, and then only, become
sure about its value, so our own duties should be verified to be valid according to the scriptures.
(890) My dear, we have vision quite in its right place, but without lamp-light that vision is of no use.
Similarly what is the use of the feet if they do not find any path to walk upon?
(891) Therefore, we should verify and ascertain by consulting the scriptures what is our eligibility
according to our class.
(892) Then, O Pandava, what difficulty is there, if we have the lamp in our hand to find out our own
treasure kept in the dark?
(893) Thus, one who acts according to the role which is his own lot, and which is also sanctioned by
scriptures,
(894) But performs these, his own duties, without laziness, and without desire for fruit, by
employing his body and mind,
(895) Makes progress as naturally while doing his duties, as water fallen in a stream flows further in
the same direction as the stream flows.
(896) O Arjuna, one who performs his ordained duties in this manner, reaches liberation on this
shore only.
(897) Since he does not come into contact with improper and prohibited actions, he is not affected
by the snare of this worldly life.
(898) Since he does not turn his attention towards selfish deeds even for fun, he does not get his feet
tied up in the fetters– may they be even of sandal-wood!
