(899) As he performs his routine duties, dropping all desire for fruit, and offering them to God, he
can reach the gates of freedom.
(900) Thus he becomes free of the complexities of actions, which are good or undesirable, and
becomes ascetic and easily reaches the threshold of freedom, and can stand firmly there.
(901,902) The seeker like a black-bee, delicately puts his steps on the "desirelessness" in which
there is fulfillment of all good fortune, there is certainty of liberation, in which there is end of
outward rituals, which ensures the liberation and which is the sweet fruit of the "tree" of
meritorious actions.
(903) Please understand that the desirelessness, which is the dawn, the harbinger of the advent of
Sun of self-knowledge in the sky, is tremendously beneficial to the seeker.
(904) Or we can say that he puts into his eyes, the divine ointment of desirelessness by which he can
see the hidden treasure of self-knowledge, and attains it.
(905) Thus, O Pandava, the man who performs his own proper duties, becomes eligible for
liberation.
(906) O Pandava, to perform this duty in this manner is the real solace to the soul, and to perform it
is the real service to me in my own nature as the super -Atman.
(907) Just as a faithful wife enjoys everything with her husband or rather all her penances are meant
for him only.
(908) Or, what other support has the child except his mother? Therefore, his greatest duty is to serve
her.
(909) Or even if a fish lives in Ganges with an idea that it is water only, and not a sacred river, if it
flows with the river and goes into the sea, he can as a matter of course, be fortunate to have the
merit of living in the most sacred place of all.
(910) Similarly if one performs one's duties with the concept that one has no other alternative but to
do it, the burden of one's welfare naturally belongs to God.
(911) The most important thing is that what a man does as his duty is the very thing which God likes,
and therefore god naturally becomes pleased if that duty is done.
(912) For example, a maid-servant, who is liked by her employer may become his wife; or if a
servant does everything for his employer even at the risk of his life, the employer may respect him
beyond limits.
(913) Similarly, dear Pandava, the only service which does not miss the wishes of the employer, (or
