God) is the true service, and all other activity is only an exercise in trade.
यतः पवृि भूतानां येन सविमदं ततम्|
वकमणा तम य य िसि ं िव दित मानवः
Man attains perfection by offering performance of his own duty as a worship to the god from
whom all the beings have been born and by whom all this world is permeated. (46)
(914) So, this is not merely the performance of the ordained duty; it should be considered as the
obeisance to the will of the Paramatman, from whom all the creation of all the beings has been
formed.
(915) He is that Paramatman, who wraps the rags of the Prakriti (the material from Nature) and
creates a doll which is Jeeva, and by pulling the rope of pride, made of the three qualities, makes
that doll dance;
(916) He is the one by whom the universe is permeated both inside and outside like the flame of a
lamp;
(917) If he is worshipped with flowers of the performance of ordained duties, he is very much
pleased;
(918) Being so pleased, he gives the blessing of desirelessness to that devotee who worships him in
this may.
(919) When the devotee is desireless like this, he is totally interested in that God, and abhors all the
illusory universe as if it is a vomit.
(920) He finds every kind of pleasure of this world as painful, just as a devoted wife has no wish to
remain alive when she is totally worried about her husband who is away from her.
(921) This indirect knowledge is so great in itself that there is total captivation of the mind of the
seeker, by God Almighty even before his direct realization.
(922) Therefore, he who is very keenly practising certain vows for realization of the state of
freedom, should meticulously and perfectly perform the duties fixed for him by the scriptures.
शेया वधम िवगुणः परधमात् वनुि तात्|
वभाविनयतं कम क
ु व ना नोित िकि बषम्
It is better to follow our own path– of our own duty– though not so glorious, than well-performed
duty of other persons. While doing the duties which are determined by the inborn nature, man does not
get any stigma. (47)
