(923) Though it is difficult or cumbersome to observe our own duties, we should consider the kind
of result which is going to be received by it.
(924) O Dhananjaya, if Neem is the only proper medicine for our ailment, how can we be averse to
its bitterness?
(925) If we look at a banana tree before it bears fruits, it gives us no hope, but if we cut it down by
being dejected, how will we get the sweet fruit like the bananas?
(926) Similarly, seeing the difficult nature of doing our own duty, if we do not like it, we will
definitely lose the great benefit of liberation!
(927) And even if our mother may be hunch- back, her love by which we live is not crooked.
(928) Other women may be more beautiful than the heavenly woman like Rambha but of what use are
they to that child?
(929) No doubt, ghee is having more nutritional properties than water, but can fish live in ghee?
(930) Just see! Poison is dangerous for all people, but for the worms which thrive in it, it is like a
nectar, and jaggery which is sweet to all, is virtual death for that worm!
(931) Therefore, whatever is proper duty by doing which the hold of worldly life on us becomes
ineffective, should always be done, though it is hard to do.
(932) And if we start doing such duties of others which we find to be easier, it will be as stupid as
to walk by our head instead of by our feet.
(933) For this reason, he who performs his own duties which are natural for him according to his
status, has already overcome the bondage of action.
(934) O Pandava, therefore, is it not essential to lay down the rule that man must do his own duty and
avoid other's duty?
(935) And just see; is not action necessary so long as there is no self-realization? And every action
has some hard work in the beginning.
सहजं कम कौ तेय सदोषमिप न यजेत्|
सवार भा िह दोषेण धूमेनाि न रवावृताः
O the son of Kunti; though there are defects of some kind in our own natural duty, it should not be
given up, because, surely all actions are having some defects just as fire is covered by some smoke.
(48)
