(936) Thus, since difficulties are there, in any action whatever, it may be, why should we say that it
is our own duty that is only having difficulties in its performance?
(937) In walking by the straight road, our feet are tired; but even in any crooked and rough path also
the feet are tired.
(938) O Dhananjaya, we may take with us in our journey either a heavy stone or tiffin-food, the load
is there in both the cases; so, only that load which will give us some relief should be taken with
us.
(939) For example, in pounding grains or husks, the strain is the same, and in cooking food for
oblation in the sacrificial fire and cooking dog's flesh, the process of cooking may be the same;
(940) O the intelligent one, if we churn water and churn curds, action is the same, and if we put sand
in a pulverizer or put til-seeds, the process is the same.
(941) O Dhananjaya, we may blow fire for kindling it for "Vaishwadeva" sacrifice or for putting fire
to a house, the nuisance of smoke is equally there!
(942) And if money is required to be spent either for supporting one's wife or a "keep", why become
the target of blame by supporting the "keep"?
(943) If we cannot escape death by running away, by the enemy's arrows hitting our back, why not
face him and suffer a brave man's death? What more have we to lose?
(944) If a housewife leaves her home because her husband beats her, and if she takes shelter in
another man's home where he also gives her a good beating, then what did she gain by getting out?
(945) Similarly, when the work which we very much love, has also unavoidable hardships, then how
can we complain that only the ordained duty is hard to do?
(946) O the son of Pandu, what wrong is there in spending all our possessions if we are getting a
little of nectar in exchange, which is going to save our life?
(947) Why should we purchase poison by spending money, when that poison is going to be the means
of our suicide?
(948) Similarly what else except pain and sorrow is there in accumulating sins which we go on
committing by harassing our organs and wasting our valuable days of life?
(949) Therefore, we should do our own duty which will eventually relieve all our pains and give us
the highest achievement of liberation.
(950) O the crowned one, it is therefore essential that we should not forget our own duty, as it is as
