useful as a consecrated Siddha Mantra in the days of calamity.
(951) As a boat is useful in the sea, and divine medicine is useful in treating incurable disease, so,
we should consider our own duty and should not neglect it.
(952) O Kapidhwaja! Then God is pleased by this great worship done by the devotee in the
performance of his own duty and by destroying the Tamas and Rajas (form the devotee's nature),
(953) Guides him to the path of Sattwa, and makes him so desireless through his eagerness in the
penance for self-realization, that he will look at all the pleasures in both the worlds as if they are
poisons!
(954) (Dnyandeva says –) "This quality of desirelessness is earlier described by the word Sansiddhi
(perfection) in my commentary on verse 45. This seeker reaches that state.
(955) Now I am going to tell you how after winning this much, the man behaves in his life and what
he achieves.
अस बुि ः सवत िजता मा िवगत पृहः|
नै क यिसि ं परमां सं यासेनािधग छित
He whose intellect is not attached anywhere, whose thirst for enjoyment has totally disappeared,
and who has subdued his mind, reaches through renunciation the final goal of action-less-ness. (49)
(956) Then just as wind cannot be caught in a net, he is not entangled in this complicated worldly
life connected with the body.
(957) He loses all interest in mundane affairs when he attains this state. It is like a ripe fruit which
the stem does not hold further, nor the fruit keeps its attachment to it.
(958) When his son, his money and his wife become estranged from him, he no longer thinks that they
belong to him, like a pot of poison which is not claimed nor taken by anybody.
(959) His intellect becomes disinterested in all objcts of the world and retreats into the quiet space
within his heart.
(960) Then even if his mind remains functioning in the outer environments, his intellect strengthened
by desirelessness remains obedient to Atman like a slave woman and does not step out at all.
(961) O the crowned one, he binds and holds his mind in the fist of the sense of unity with Atman and
keeps it ever attuned to that Atman.
(962) Then it is natural that his craving for mundane and heavenly pleasures dies down like little fire
under a heavy layer of ash.
