(963) Thus his passion disappears as his mind is under control. He attains this high state in this way.
(964) Thus, O Pandava, this means that his illusory perception of the world through false knowledge
is ended and he as Jeeva, becomes firmly established in real self-knowledge.
(965) Then just like water stored in a pot is finished, his accumulated residue of past karma comes
to an end by his body- actions, and his mind does not help in any way for creating further bondage
of selfish action.
(966) When this state of equilibrium of action is attained, he meets his Guru as a matter of course, O
the leader of brave men!
(967) This is like rising of the Sun after all the four quarters of night time are over.
(968) Just as further growth of a banana tree stops when it bears the bunch of bananas, so, the
meeting with his Guru affects the life of the seeker.
(969) O the Bravest among men! Just as all the lacunae in the disc of the Moon are removed when
full moon night embraces the Moon, so the life of the seeker is fulfilled by the grace of his Guru.
(970) Then whatever residual ignorance is still lingering in the seeker's mind, it is destroyed by the
grace of the Guru, and then just as the darkness with the night disappears at the sunrise,
(971) Similarly the trinity of the actor, the action and the acting which is in the womb of ignorance is
destroyed like killing of a pregnant female animal.
(972) Then together with the destruction of ignorance, the totality of action with its results is also
destroyed. Thus the renunciation reaches the very core of the soul.
(973) As by the destruction of basic ignorance the anchor of the creation of name and form is
uprooted, this man himself remains as the object of knowledge, in the absence of any second
object before him.
(974) When we are awakened, is it necessary to try to save us from drowning, which was our dream
experience?
(975) Similarly the bad dream of this seeker in which he was thinking- "I am not knowing, I will
acquire knowledge" is finished and he discards both the factors of the knower and the object of
knowledge and remains as pure knowledge.
(976) O the bravest man! When the mirror and the reflection are removed, the observer remains
alone without his role as observer.
