(977) Similarly, when ignorance is destroyed, its counterpart which is the quality of knowing is also
destroyed and only inactive energy remains.
(978) O Dhananjaya, as there is naturally no action there, it is called actionless-ness.
(979) There, we remain in our original state; and our separateness which was the product of
ignorance becomes non-existent. It is just as a wave becomes water, losing its separate identity,
when wind stops blowing.
(980) So, this state of not existing as a separate entity is called the achievement of the state of
actionlessness and this is the highest human attainment of all.
(981) The construction of dome is the end of building a temple; meeting the sea is the end of
riverness of Ganges and the highest purity of gold is the caliber of ‘sixteen.’
(982) Similarly this state is where both our ignorance and our knowledge – are nullified.
(983) As there is nothing beyond this state, it is called the supreme attainment.
िसि ं पा ो यथा ब तथा नोित िनबोध मे|
समासेनैव कौ तेय िन ा ान य या परा
O Son of Kunti; learn from me, in short, the process through which man having attained
actionlessness, which is the highest consumation of Dnyanayoga (the path of knowledge), reaches
Brahman. (50)
(984) Now we will consider the case of a man who is fortunate to get the blessings of the Guru and
attains this achievement of realization of Atman.
(985) Just as at sunrise, darkness becomes light, or camphor becomes flame by touch of a flame,
(986) Or salt becomes water when touched by water,
(987) Or when a man wakes up, both the dream and the sleep disappear and he becomes aware of
himself;
(988) Similarly if there is some lucky person whose sense of duality ends and if he gets rest in the
unity in the state of Atman, simply by listening to the sentence of advice uttered by Guru,
(989) Can anybody say that there is still any more things required to be done by that man? Has the
sky the necessity of being born or destroyed, of coming into existence and going out of existence?
(990) Therefore, there is no doubt that such a man has nothing to do. But consider another man in
whose case this sudden realization does not take place.
