remains only nothingness in which no thing exists at all.
(1006) The state of being united with Brahman is attained by that man after some time only.
(1007) Just as a hungry man, when given a good full meal, becomes satisfied gradually by every
morsel he takes,
(1008) Similarly when the lamp of discrimination becomes bright by the oil of desirelessness, then
the seeker finds that the hidden treasure of the reality of Atman is open to him.
(1009) But he who has become so deserving as to be able to directly enjoy the glory of that Reality,
(1010) Reaches that capacity by fulfillment of certain conditions in a particular sequence, which I
am going to tell you. Please listen.
बु या िवशु या यु ो धृ या मानं िनय य च|
श दादीि वषयां य वा राग ेषौ युद य च
Being enriched by pure intellect, controlling himself firmly, giving-up the objects of senses like
sound etc. and destroying the attachment and hatred. (51)
(1011) He travels by the path of penance as shown by his Guru, and arrives at the place of sacred
water, which is the quality of discrimination, and there he washes the dirt on his intellect.
(1012) Then just as the brightness of the Moon which is free of the eclipse of Rahu, embraces the
Moon again, the intellect of this seeker, being cleaned, embraces the Atman.
(1013) Just as by setting aside the importance of the maternal family as well as the husband's family-
members, a faithful wife only follows obediently the orders of her husband, similarly the intellect
of this man sets aside the dualities of pain and pleasure, and becomes merged into the meditation
on the nature of Atman.
(1014) And the five sense objects which had been pampered by the organs in the desire to enjoy
knowledge derived from them,
(1015) Become dissolved just as the mirage disappears, when the sun-rays are withdrawn, through
the control of his sense organs.
(1016) Just as it is wise to vomit any food, which is taken ignorantly though it is prohibited, he
makes the sense organs vomit the objects and the desire for them also.
(1017) Then he brings back the sense organs to the shore of the Ganges of the withdrawing process,
and purifies them by proper purificatory ritual.
