(1018) Then with the convincing strength of Sattwa quality, he further sanctifies these organs and
makes them united with the mind by the practice of Yoga.
(1019) If by chance he has to suffer the results of the actions done in the past life, he does not feel
annoyed or angry, if there is any undesirable thing in it.
(1020) And if any good things come along, bringing results of the past actions, he is not feeling
excited by joy.
(1021) In this way, O the crowned one, this seeker gives up the attraction or disturbance, which is
generally caused by good and unwanted things, and lives in a secluded place which is cool inside
a cave of a mountain.
िविव सेवी ल वाशी यतवा कायमानसः|
यानयोगपरो िन यं वैरा यं समुपािशतः
He lives in a selected secluded place, eats food frugally, has control over speech, body and mind,
his practice of meditation is continuous and he is always resorting to desirelessness. (52)
(1022) He stays in a place away from the crowds of people, and the organs of his body are his only
companions.
(1023) His pass-time is playing with the experimenting of control over mind and body, his silence is
his talk and he is not aware how much time has lapsed in this meditation upon the advice given by
his Guru.
(1024, 1025) He has nothing in his mind while taking his meals, as regards becoming stronger and
well-built, or that he should satisfy his hunger or he should cater to the taste of his tongue. The joy
which he derives from taking food in proper measure, is beyond description.
(1026) He takes that much food as will rejuvenate his emaciated strength.
(1027) Just as a woman of good morals does not even turn her gaze towards another man who may
be soliciting her, he does not give shelter to sleep and laziness in his life.
(1028) He has no thought to lie on the floor (lazily) except while prostrating before respectable
persons or god.
(1029) He allows his hands and feet to move only enough for performance of necessary bodily
functions, and generally keeps his mind and body under his control.
(1030) And O the brave one, he does not allow the inclinations of his mind even to touch the outer
threshold of it, what of going beyond that limit? And where is the scope for expressing his
