thoughts in words?
(1031) Thus by conquering the areas of body, speech and mind which are outside his Atman, he
grasps the inner space of meditation.
(1032) He is always keeping the conviction about the self-knowledge which is aroused by the
teaching given by his Guru, in front of his attentive mind, like a man holding mirror in fromt of his
face to observe himself in it.
(1033) O Arjuna, you should try to understand his state of mind, where, though he is the meditator,
his meditation becomes concordant with his object of meditation.
(1034) Thus his meditation continues till the meditator, the act of meditating and the object of
meditation are amalgamated.
(1035) Thus the seeker of liberation, the aspirant, becomes well-established in self-knowledge but
he can achieve this through his giving importance to the study and practice of yoga.
(1036) He achieves the Moolabandha posture by pressing the threadlike line between the anus and
the testical sheath by his heel.
(1037) He then constricts the anal muscle, achieves the Moolabandha at that place, Odhiyana bandha
near navel and Jallandar-bandha near the region of throat and brings together various vital winds
from the body.
(1038) He then awakens the serpent power Kundalini, opens up the mid-channel of Sushumna and
penetrates all the Chakras from the Root Chakra to the chakra dedicated to Fire.
(1039) And then the cloud of nectar starts from the seventh Chakra, which is also called the
Brahmarandhra; the flow of that nectar goes down to the Root-chakra and spreads there.
(1040) Then he serves the mixture of mind and vital breath into the bowl of Bhairava of spirit, who
dances on the Kailasa peak of that seventh Chakra.
(1041) Thus he puts a large army of Yogic powers achieved by constant concentration in the front
side and at the same time he strengthens the garrison of meditation on the back side.
(1042,1043) He has already made friendship with desirelessness in order to ensure the steadiness of
meditation and Yoga in the knowledge of the Atman without any disturbance; and while traversing
all these stages this friend is always accompanying him, giving him its full support.
(1044) If the lamp is continuously in our hand whose light is available up to the farthest point where
our vision can reach, what difficulty is there in seeing the absolute thing?
