(1045) Similarly when the seeker attains the stage of a keen aspirant for liberation, his inner attitude
turns back and merges into the absolute principle of Brahman, and if his desirelessness is actively
maintained that far, how can the unity in Brahman be broken?
(1046) Therefore, one who is fortunate enough to practise this yoga and at the same time has the
quality of desirelessness saturated in his nature, he becomes eligible for self-realization.
(1047) In other words, he dons the impenetrable armour of desirelessness and, jumps up on the horse
of Rajayoga.
(1048) And he holds tight in the fist of discrimination the strong sword of concentrated attention,
which sword can snap and cut down any small or big impediment that happens to try to thwart his
progress.
(1049) In this way, in the darkness, he advances in the battle field of worldly-life like a brilliant Sun
and finally the goddess of victory in the form of liberty and freedom, adores him by putting the
garland around his neck.
अहंकारं बलं दप कामं कोधं प रगहम्|
िवमु य िनममः शा तो ब भूयाय क पते
By giving up egotism, pride, sense of arrogant strength, sullenness, lust, anger, and craving for
possessions, devoid of the feeling of belonging, and tranquil of heart- such a man becomes qualified
for oneness with Brahman. (53)
(1050) This brave seeker thrashes all the enemies who come in his way, the leader of whom is the
pride of physical body.
(1051) This enemy does not leave the man even after death and does not allow him to live
comfortably while in life, but he puts the man in the cage of bones and makes him frustrated.
(1052) But body is his only castle which is conquered by this brave aspirant and he destroys his
enemy totally. The second enemy is violent strength whom also this spiritual soldier kills.
(1053) The peculiarity of this enemy is that as soon as there is mention of any object to be possessed
and enjoyed, he flares up indignantly and then death advances to grasp all the world at his hands.
(1054) This enemy is as if a flood of the poison of objects. He enjoys empire over all the vices. But
how can he face successfully the sword of serious meditation?
(1055) Then there is another enemy, who dons the cloak of those objects which appear to be sweet
and pleasurable and attacks suddenly.
