(1056) This enemy avoids the way of good deeds and by enticing the Jeevas, who are pilgrims of
liberation, towards the deep forest of irreligious activities, directly throws them into the mouth of
the tiger of hell.
(1057) This is called sullenness or abnormal arrogance, who plays a confidence trick and kills, but
the aspirant slays this enemy also. Further there is another enemy of which even the greatest
Yogis are afraid; which is "Lust".
(1058) From this enemy, the great vice of anger is produced. The more it is propitiated by putting
into its mouth what it wants, the more imaciated it appears.
(1059) This enemy who is "lust" or carnal passion is also destroyed by our brave soldier, because
when it is destroyed, automatically the other enemy who is anger is also destroyed.
(1060) Just as to cut the roots of a tree is tantamount to cutting the branches, so to destroy the passion
is equal to destroying the anger.
(1061) Therefore, when the lust is arrested and imprisoned, automatically the mad dance of anger
stops.
(1062) Then there is the craving for possessions. When once one accepts and promotes in his life
this tendency, his tyranny goes on increasing, just as a great powerful man does not hesitate to put
his burdens on the heads of others by force.
(1063) This vice overrides and takes possession of brain, attaches various vices to the character of
the man, and makes him hold in his hand the staff of "myness" to support his actions.
(1064) This craving for possessions has entangled many Sanyasis also by creating a parafernalia of
various scriptures, disciples, monasteries, the signs and symbols of particular cults, etc.
'(1065) In the home, he nags a man by becoming his family and in the forest, he accosts the seeker in
the shape of a forester, and it does not spare even a naked body.
(1066) This brave seeker conquers the unconquerable enemy of possessiveness and enjoys the sense
of victory in the battle of worldly life.
(1067) Then "lack of self-pride" etc., who are the doyens of good qualities and monarchs of the
kingdom of freedom, welcome him in their congregation.
(1068) Then by endowing him with the kingdom of pure knowledge of truth, they remain as his
servants.
(1069) When this soldier walks by the road of outward activities, the three stages, like women,
namely the waking state, the dream state and the deep sleep, honour him on the way by waving
