before him some articles like salt, to ward off evil.
(1070) Discrimination uses the cane of the self-knowledge and banishes all illusory things and the
states of trance etc. in yoga, come forward to wave before him the auspicious things.
(1071) Then all the groups of occult powers come to shower flowers upon him, in which the seeker
really bathes.
(1072) So, when the empire of unity with Brahman is very near him, he sees all the three worlds as
full of great joy.
(1073) O Dhananjaya, as he is the only one without any duality, there is nobody else to whom he may
call his friend or foe.
(1074) Not only this, but even if by chance he calls somebody as "mine", that man does not appear to
him as anybody separate from himself.
(1075) O son of Pandu, since he comprehends the whole universe as one including himself the
narrow sense of possessing any particular thing as his own, cannot get place in his mind. He has
as if banished it totally.
(1076) When this horseman, the seeker, thus kills all his enemies and discards this illusory world,
his horse naturally becomes steady. (His study of yoga comes to a steady stage)
(1077) Then he losens his armour of desirelessness to some extent.
(1078) He sets aside the sword of meditation as there is nobody else in front of him and, therefore,
he takes back the advancing hand of active fight.
(1079) This is like the medicine which cures the patient of his disease and it also becomes non-
existent, being consumed by him.
(1080) Just as the runner's feet become slow and even stop walking when the place where he had
wanted to reach is already reached, so he relaxes his study of yoga, as the unity with Brahman is
achieved.
(1081) Just as the speed of a big river lessens when it reaches the sea and just as the sexy woman
becomes calm when she meets her husband.
(1082) Or the growth of a banana tree stops when it produces the bunch of the bananas, or a road
merges into a town when it reaches it.
(1083) So, when this seeker gets the actual experience of self-realization; he slowly keeps down his
instruments of penance.
