(1095) This state of peace is called the Glory of Self-realization, which is gained by that man, O the
most intelligent Arjuna!
(1096) Now, being the supreme all-pervading Brahman, this man has not to search anything which is
lost, nor try to get something new which he has not got.
(1097) For example, as soon as the Sun rises, all the stars lose their light.
(1098) Similarly, O Partha, being endowed with the self-realization, this man finds that everywhere
he looks, the whole creation constituting duality starts dissolving, breaking down.
(1099) Just as the letters written on the sand-board, can be wiped out merely by our palm, so, all the
differences of all objects disappear before his gaze.
(1100) Similarly all kinds of illusory perceptions and knowledge created in the dreams and waking
states, become dissolved in the unmanifest oneness, which is basic ignorance.
(1101) Then this basic ignorance also decreases gradually with deeper under-standing of the
Brahman.
(1102) For example, with every morsel, hunger goes on decreasing and when the dinner is
completed, it is totally satisfied.
(1103) Or with every step towards the goal, the length of the road diminishes and when the goal is
reached, the purpose of the road and the walking also comes to an end.
(1104) Or when a man is about to wake up, the sleep becomes lighter and lighter and when he is
fully awake sleep completely ends.
(1105) When it is full-moon night, the increase in the size of the face of the Moon stops and the
bright fortnight also comes to an end.
(1106) Similarly, when, absorbing all objects of knowledge, the knower with his role of knowing is
merged into me, then there is complete dissolution of ignorance.
(1107) For example, there are no separate waters of lakes, ponds or rivers when everything is
inundated by deluge at the time of final dissolution.
(1108) Or, when all the forms like the pots, the houses etc. are dissolved and only one undivided all-
pervading sky remains or when woods burn, everything is fire only.
(1109) Or when in the urn of a goldsmith, ornaments are melted the names and forms of the
ornaments are not applicable to the gold.
