(1110) Or to take another example, when we are awake and the dream is gone, we alone remain as
we are.
(1111) Similarly he is not aware of anything other than myself nor is he aware of himself also and
thus the 'fourth type' of devotion takes place in his case.
(1112) The other three kinds of devotion of an unhappy sufferer, or an intelligent enquirer or one
who seeks fulfilment of his life-purpose in the world, are lesser than this devotion and, therefore,
I call it the fourth type of devotion.
(1113) Really this is not the third, fourth, first or the last or final devotion, but it is my own most
natural state.
(1114) That state is the light by which ignorance about my real nature is seen by the devotees and it
is also the light which provokes everybody to devotion towards various apparent manifestations
of mine only, by showing the separateness when actually I am one;
(1115) It is the light by which everybody becomes attached to the deity or the image or the ideals
about which he is experiencing faith.
(11116) It is the light by which there is the experiencing of the existence or the non-existence of the
world, just as our pure being on which the experiencing of the dream state or the waking state
takes place.
(1117) O the warrior with a flag marked by the sign of Hanuman, know that this natural light of my
existence is called devotion.
(1118) Therefore, this very devotion takes the form of suffering in the case of my devotee who is a
sufferer, and it provokes him to experience me only in the form of relief which he desires to get
through my devotion, prayers, etc.
(1119) O the Great warrior, in the case of the devotee, this light, this devotion takes the form of his
eagerness to know and also becomes the object of knowledge in another form of mine.
(1120) In the case of a devotee who desires to fulfil his life by some goal, this devotion takes the
form of prayers or penance, and it also shows him my own form as his desired attainment, thus his
desire and object of desire are both my own manifestations. This devotion makes it possible.
(1121) This very devotion thus has the basis of the ignorance of the devotee, functions on that
assumption only, but shows the observer myself as the object to be observed.
(1122) In this devotion what happens is that face is looking at face only but the duality of reflection
is caused by the mirror.
