(1123) To see the Moon as only one planet is normal for our eyesight but if two Moons are seen
instead of one, then it is our defective vision that is responsible.
(1124) Similarly devotees of all these categories worship me only, but the visible image which they
project on my true abstract nature is their ignorance only.
(1125) Now as the ignorance is gone, myself remains the observer, just as the reflection merges in
the original object.
(1126) When gold is mixed with any lesser metal, that gold in itself is pure only, and when it is
heated, the lesser metal is burnt and the gold in its purity remains.
(1127) For example, is not Moon full with her phases though not visible, on other nights? But she
appears in her fullness on the full-moon night only.
(1128) Similarly by the way of knowledge it is I who am experienced, but I am seen from various
angles in various images and when I am thus realized, 'Me' as the observer disappears totally.
(1129) Therefore, I have said that the devotion of the fourth category is beyond the visible, O Partha!
भ या मामिभजानाित यावा य ाि म त वतः |
ततो मां त वतो ा वा िवशते तदन तरम्
He Knows me as I am and the way in which I am, in my own element, and thus knowing me as I
am principally, he then merges into me. (55)
(1130) You have already heard that the devotee who thus merges into me, is then myself only and not
separate.
(1131) Because, O the warrior with a flag with the sign of Hanuman, I have in my earlier talk loudly
and emphatically declared to you that the man of knowledge is my Atman only. (7th chapter)
(1132) O Dhananjaya it is this same devotion which I taught to the God Brahma, at the beginning of
the Kalpa - the greater cycle of Ages.
(1133) The men of knowledge call it Samvitti, the Right understanding, the Shaivas call it SHAKTI
the divine power, and we call it our Supreme Devotion."
(1134) This is the same devotion the fruit of which is gained by the Karmayogis (followers of the
path of action) and they experience that the whole universe is permeated by me only.
(1135) In such state both the discrimination and austerity, liberation and bondage, withdrawal and
outgoing attitude,– all disappear.
