(1136) As everything is on this shore, there is nothing remaining on the other shore. Just as only sky
would remain after the earth, the water, the fire and the air are all annihilated,
(1137) Similarly, I remain as the pure pristinely clear existence beyond the goal and the means to
reach that goal, and enjoy my own Atman as the eternal bliss.
(1138) Please understand this. This bliss in the nature of Atman is like the shining waters of Ganges
which go and mingle with the sea but shine with rare brilliance, more than the quiet seawater.
(1139) If one mirror is kept facing another mirror apposite to it, the reflections in both the mirrors
are beautifully mixed with each other. Similarly one who was the observer so far, now becomes
united with me, and can enjoy his bliss in that aloneness of Atomic stage.
(1140) Then, as the mirror in front of a man is removed and as the reflection of that man in that
mirror is also invisible, the man remains as himself, without his activity as the observer, in his
own aloneness;
(1141) Or when a dream is ended with the ending of sleep and the man who is awakened, remains
himself alone, without any other to be his companion. (This bliss in the Atman is of that nature)
(1142) If some say that when one thing only remains and there is no other, how can there be
experiencing, in the absence of two things, we ask them- "How is word uttered by word itself?"
(1143) Is the Sun required to be seen by lighting a lamp? Or is the sky required to be supported by
bullies?
(1144) Can anybody enjoy kingship without becoming a king? Does darkness ever embrace the Sun
in a tight hold?
(1145) How can a thing which is not the sky, enjoy being the sky? Can an ornament made up of wild
red-black berry seeds, show off as an ornament of rubies?
(1146) Similarly for that which cannot be formed as the I, a separate entity, where is the existence of
the I? There is no question of his experiencing that I.
(1147) Therefore, we say that the said man of the Yoga of action enjoys me by being me only. It is
like a young man enjoying his youth.
(1148) For example, a wave is kissing the water by its whole existence, or light is indivisible,
amalgamated in the Sun or the sky-ness is full everywhere in the sky.
(1149) Similarly, just as a gold ornament enjoys by its whole body, being gold only, the man of the
Yoga of action realizes my true nature and himself enjoys Me; without doing anything for it.
