(1150) For example, the fragrance of sandalwood is impregnated in the sandalwood, or the
moonlight without doing anything, is fully one with the Moon.
(1151) Similarly though action of any sort has no scope in the state of non-duality, there is place
there for devotion. This is to be felt, to be realized by self-experience only. This cannot be
described by words.
(1152) When such a devotee talks anything because of the past habits of reactions to the
environments, that talk is itself my prayers, and the response which I give is also myself.
(1153) When the speaker is none else than himself, any talk is not possible and my best devotion is
his silence only.
(1154) In such condition when he talks, it is I who am talking and the fruit of his silence is what he
offers as the praise to me.
(1155) O the crowned one, when he sees anything by his physical eyes or by intellectual perception,
the object before him disappears and he sees himself only.
(1156) Just as a man sees his own reflection in the mirror and then focusses his attention to the
mirror, so the faculty of seeing shows the devotee his own self everywhere.
(1157) When the object to be seen disappears from his divine vision, the observer experiences
himself only and loses his role of observer.
(1158) When a woman sees her husband in her dream, she advances to embrace him with all her
eagerness but when her dream breaks, at that moment, she realizes that she is alone and becomes
quiet.
(1159) Or, when two dry pieces of word get rubbed against each other, suddenly fire is produced
and the term – ‘‘Two pieces of wood’’ becomes futile because there is only fire.
(1160) And if the Sun stoops down to catch his reflection in the water, the reflection disappears and
his role as the original seer of it also comes to an end.
(1161) Similarly when being united with me, this devotee sets about seeing any object, the object
together with his apparent role of observer, goes into oblivion.
(1162) When the Sun turns darkness itself into light, there is nothing remaining to be lighted, and
similarly when the seer becomes one with me, the object as something to be separately observed
does not remain at all.
(1163) Then in this state, the object is within the field of the vision of the seer, but he is not looking
at it as a separate object- this is the real vision, the real seeing.
