(1164) O the crowned one, this seeing takes place in his case with any object in front of him and then
he experiences that vision which is beyond the two factors of the seer and the seen.
(1165) Now just as the sky does not move because it is complete in itself, fully occupied by itself,
he also does not move from his reality because he is fully within his Atman which is all-
pervading unity.
(1166) At the time of final deluge, water is everywhere, and therefore, there is no movement of a
stream in it. Similarly he is complete, all-existing Atman and there is no moving anywhere any
time from his state.
(1167) How can a foot go beyond itself? How can fire burn itself? How can water bathe with water
only?
(1168) Similarly, as he is totally one with my real nature, all his activities come to an end, and this
stoppage of going anywhere is "Pilgrimage to my aloneness."
(1169) A wave may travel far on the surface of water but it cannot flow similarly on the land.
(1170) There the place which the wave leaves behind and the place which she reaches are both
'water' only, and its speed and movement are of water only.
(1171) O son of Pandu, however great may be the upsurging of the water, its waterness in inherently
unchanging and, therefore, waves do not lose their real unity with water.
(1172) Similarly though this devotee may go anywhere or act in anyway on the base of the body's
inborn nature and conditioning, he becomes the pilgrim travelling into me and towards me only.
(1173) And if he acts in the wake of the natural inborn conditioning of his body, it is I who meet him
in the form of his action.
(1174) O son of Pandu, then there is neither the actor nor the action, because he sees me in his reality
of Atman and becomes one with me.
(1175) There is no seeing when a mirror peeps into another mirror, and gold cannot be covered or
hidden by gold only.
(1176) Or just as it is not practicable that a lamp shows us another lamp when both are lit; so, it is
not action when I am ‘what action is’, and do any action!
(1177) When the concept that "I have to do a certain thing" is absent at the time of the happening of
the action, that action is not action (which binds).
(1178) As every action becomes 'me' only, not to intentionally do anything becomes the action and
