(1193) He knows that "I am without birth, without death, without deterioration, I am unprecedented
and I the unlimited bliss.
(1194) I am firm, non-moving, not fallible, endless, non-dual, primordial, formless as well as having
form.
(1195) I am the one who is governed by God, I am God, having no beginning, undestructible,
fearless, the supporter and the supported also.
(1196) I wield all power, always perfect, self-made, unbroken, constant, having all forms, dwelling
in all, and beyond all.
(1197) I am new and old, void and full, and whatever is small or large, I am that.
(1198) I have no action and its bondage, I am without duality, unattached and without sorrow. I am
the supreme person, occupying everything and that which is occupied.
(1199) I have no sound, ear, form or family name. I am the same everywhere self-evident and the
absolute Brahman.
(1200) So, in this way he knows me and himself also similar to me by his total devotion in unity. He
also knows that I am the knowing by which he realizes me in this way.
(1201) Just as a man knows himself to be alone when he awakes from a dream-
(1202) or when the Sun rises, he lights himself, and it is he who shows that he and his light are not
separate.
(1203) Similarly when the object of knowledge disappears only the knower remains and it is the
knower himself, who knows that he is alone.
(1204) Dear Arjun, this devotee also knows that the faculty of knowing that it is non-duality, is also
my own nature and my own power.
(1205) Then as the devotee experiences without doubt that I am the Atman, alone beyond the
concepts of unity and duality, and when he actually experiences this,
(1206) Then just as a man who is awake and is aware that he is alone, but later on that awareness
also disappears, the state of that man cannot be described.
(1207) Or for example, when we see gold, the awareness of that gold as well as the awareness of
the ornament disappears.
(1208) In other words, when salt is dissolved in water, its taste of saltiness remains in the water, but
