if that taste is also gone, the basic existence of salt disappears.
(1209) Similarly, when this devotee remains in the experience of self - realization, in that peace his
awareness that "he is Me" also disappears. That is the way in which the devotee enters into me.
(1210) Then the term 'He' is gone and naturally the term 'Me' also ends because it has no place. Thus
the feeling of separateness of 'He and Me' dissolves and he is really one with me.
(1211) When a piece of camphor burns, the name 'fire' is rightly used but when the camphor is burnt
out and the fire also becomes non-existent only the element of sky remains.
(1212) When we deduct one from one, 'nothing' remains. Similarly when 'is' is deducted from 'is not'
what remains; or when existence and non existence are eliminated mutually what remains, is my
real nature.
(1213) In that state the bliss is contaminated even by using the terms, 'Brahman, Atman, God' etc. and
there is no scope even to say that 'No' Thing' remains in that state!
(1214) That ‘No Thing’ should be described fully without saying 'No', and without having the
awareness of knowledge and ignorance, it should be rightly known.
(1215) In that state, the understanding should teach the understanding, happiness should embrace
happiness, and the joy should enjoy the joy.
(1216) In that state, benefit gets the benefit, the brightness embraces the brightness and the wonder is
drowned in the wonder.
(1217) There the peace experiences quietness, the rest gets rest and experience is having love for
experience.
(1218) In short when the beautiful creeper of the Yoga of action is nourished by that man, he gains
the flawless fruit of my being.
(1219) And O the crowned one, I become the jewel of spirituality in the crown of that emperor of the
Yoga of action and, he, in exchange becomes jewel in my crown.
(1220) In other words, the liberation is the high dome of the temple of the Yoga of action and that
yogi becomes the expanse of the vast sky above that dome.
(1221) Or, we can say that in the forest of mundane life the yoga of action is a good path and that
path reaches to the town of unity with me.
(1222) Or, that Yogi, swimming in the stream of Yoga of action in the waters of knowledge and
devotion, reaches the ocean of Atmic bliss, which is my nature.
