(1223) O the wise Arjuna, such is the greatness of this yoga and, therefore, we are again and again
emphatically telling you about it.
(1224) My dear, I am not a goal to be reached by selecting proper place, proper
time and employing proper things as means, but I am already everything in everybody.
(1225) Therefore, no hard work is required to be undertaken for being united with me. I am easily
available by this simple path of the yoga of action.
(1226) There is a regular practice of conceiving one man as Guru and the other as disciple but that
relationship is useful only to understand the path which leads one to me.
(1227) O the crowned one, the treasure is already there underground, fire is hidden in the wood, and
milk is there in the udder of a cow.
(1228) But he who finds the way to get them only gets them; and similarly I am there everywhere and
everybody but realization of this is possible by certain way.
(1229) (Saint Dnyaneshwar says) Somebody may ask why the lord Krishna after having discussed
the supreme state of the devotee, now turns to describe the way or the preparation for it; Here it
may be mentioned that this introduction suggests a certain way.
(1230) Because it is the rightful authority of this commentary on the Geeta to discuss from all angles
the path of liberation, as the way or means described in other systems of philosophy may not
necessarily be the correct ones.
(1231) The wind may by its power remove the clouds so that people can see the Sun, but that wind
cannot create the Sun; and our hand can very well remove the moss on the water but it cannot
create the water.
(1232) Similarly, - the Lord says that- all other systems may remove the dirt of ignorance but I am
self-luminant and clean at all times (and not created by those scriptures.)
(1233) Therefore, all scriptures are just utensils for cleansing the dirt of ignorance which impedes
the vision of Atman, but beyond that, they have no power to bring about direct self-realization.
(1234) Geeta is the place where those scriptures turn, when they have the problem of proving their
truthfulness.
(1235) Just as all the directions are also full of light when the Sun enriches the east with his bright
light, so it is by the help of Geeta that all scriptures are capable of showing the right way of
realization of the supreme.
(1236) That is enough. The Lord has earlier described in details all the paths in such a simple way
