that one may be able to hold the Atman in his hand!
(1237) But the Lord Shrihari must have thought that perhaps Arjuna might have or might have not
grasped the essence of this subject, in the very first listening, and he felt compassionate towards
Arjuna.
(1238) So, he is telling in short the same truth again so as to make his disciple capable of having
definite understanding.
(1239) And as the end of Geeta is near, he is showing that the beginning and the end of Geeta are
consistent with each other.
(1240) The reason of showing this consistency is that while commenting upon the various doctrines
during the course of the talks, the Lord has dwelt upon many other maxims, both relevant or not to
the main premise.
(1241) Some one may quite mistakenly say that all those doctrines are the main and the essential
arguments of the Geeta, not giving deeper attention.
(1242) Therefore, the Lord has nicely joined all the doctrines to the main premise in such a way that
the whole teaching will remain homogeneous.
(1243) So, destruction of ignorance is the main subject matter, the result of that is attainment of
liberation and knowledge is the means effective for both the purposes.
(1244) And throughout all the lengthy discussion in this book, this is the only doctrine propounded in
various ways and now the Lord intends to tell it in a few words.
(1245) And, therefore, even after proving the certainty of the fruit of all spiritual endeavour, the
Lord has set about discussing the means again; with this purpose in his mind.
सवकमा यिप सदा क
ु वाणो म वपाशयः|
म पसादादवा नोित शा तं पदम ययम्
The Yogi of the Path of action, even though performing all actions attains my eternal imperishable
state through my grace, if he surrenders himself to and takes refuge in me. (56)
(1246) Then the Lord Shrikrishna said, "O the great warrior, this Yogi of action becomes united with
me and remains established in me only.
(1247) He worships me by using the pure flowers of the performance of his proper duties and
becomes endowed with faith in the path of knowledge through the blessing which he gets for his
worship.
