(1248) When this faith in knowledge arises in his life, devotion to me increases greatly and he
enjoys the peace of the equilibrium which he attains through his extreme devotion.
(1249) He understands me, as the all-pervading Atman, who gives light to the whole universe and
worships me in that omnipresent Nature.
(1250) Just as the salt drops its separate existence and merges into water, or just as, ceasing its
activity of blowing, the wind rests in the sky.
(1251) Similarly, when he takes refuge in me by his intellect, speech and action, then even if
sometimes some improper action is committed by him,
(1252) His right actions and wrong actions become pure only, as he understands my reality, just as
the small dirty stream of water becomes Ganges only, when it merges into it,
(1253) For example the difference between the sandalwood and ordinary wood is considered so
long as both are not gutted by fire.
(1254) Similarly, the differences between pure gold and impure gold are counted so long as the
magic stone Parees does not transform all into pure gold.
(1255) So, auspicious or inauspicious actions are different only so long as my all-pervading light
does not illuminate all actions and purify them.
(1256) The difference between day and night is valid on this earth but it ends when we are in the
Sun, the eternal light!
(1257) Similarly, O the crowned one! All his actions simply get wiped away and he sits on the
throne of final liberation, when he thus merges into me.
(1258) He attains my state of reality, which is not disturbed or destroyed through lapse of time, or a
particular place or the inborn nature of his physical body in his life.
(1259) In short, O son of Pandu, what more gain will he want, when he receives my grace, which is
the bliss of the Atman?
चेतसा सवकमािण मिय सं य य म परः|
बुि योगमुपािश य मि च ः सततं भव
Surrendering all your actions by your mind, to me, and taking recourse to the yoga of intelligent
equilibrium of the mind, you should become solely devoted to me and meditating on me only. (57)
(1260) Therefore. O Dhananjaya, you should offer all your actions to me.
