(1261) But O the brave one! It is not the renunciation of your daily routine duties. You should yoke
your intellect to the discrimination of what is Atman and what is not Atman.
(1262) Then by that distinction you will see your Atman, your own real nature as merged into me,
but quite separated from Karma or the activities which bind you.
(1263) You will also know that the Prakriti, which is the birth place of Action is also very far away
from Atman.
(1264) Then, O Dhananjaya, it will so happen that realization will also arise in you that this Prakriti
cannot actually be away from Atman, as a shadow of a body is always with it!
(1265) When thus the Prakriti will be no more as something separate, then automatically all actions
will be merged by renunciation for want of any duality.
(1266) When all action is ended, only Atman remains as me, and the intellect will be loyally
devoted to that Atman, just as faithful wife loves her husband.
(1267) When the intellect devotes itself to me by one-pointed love, the mind will also drop all its
fickle movements and devote itself to me.
(1268) And I advise you to regularly make such an effort that your mind will drop all its pranks and
will merge into me firmly, at all times.
मि च ः सवदुगािण म पसादा र यिस|
अथ चेत् वमहंकारा न शो यिस िवन यिस
With your mind thus merged into me, you shall tide over all difficulties by my grace; But if you
will not listen to this advice through your pride, you will be lost. (58)
(1269) When your mind will be thus completely filled with me, you should know that you have
gained my full grace.
(1270) Then all the sorrows and pains in the worldly life will be easy and tolerable for you.
(1271) If our eyes have the help of sunlight what fear have we of the darkness?
(1272) Similarly when the seed-like particle of the state of Jeeva is completely crushed what fear
has he of the phantom of worldly life?
(1273) Therefore, O Dhananjaya, by my grace you will escape from the net of this worldly life.
(1274) And if on the contrary, you will not lend your ear or attend to my advice by your mind,
