(1286) If a swimmer tries to swim towards west in the stream which is flowing forcefully towards
east, his effort will only be his madness and that water will drown him for certain.
(1287) If the rice seed will say, "I will not grow as rice,’’ can it disregard its natural growth?
(1288) O the wise one! similarly, your nature has been developed as a Kshatriya, and though you say
that you will not get up to fight, that nature will make you get up, no doubt.
(1289) O the son of Pandu, in your character, qualities like bravery, daring, alertness, etc., are
imbibed most naturally.
(1290) Your nature will not let you sit quietly without doing what that nature dictates.
(1291) O the wielder of the great bow, you are bound by these qualities and, therefore, for all
practical purposes, you are bound to act as Kshatriya.
(1292) If without taking into consideration your inborn nature. you ignorantly keep up with your
decision not to fight,
(1293) Then, just as a person who with his hands and feet tied, sits in a chariot he has to go with the
moving chariot;
(1294) Similarly though you try to sit tight with adamant decision that you will not do anything, I am
sure that you are definitely going to act.
(1295) Remember how you got up and went with Uttara, the prince of Virat country, to fight with
Kauravas. The same warrior spirit will compel you to fight now also.
(1296) You have had single-handedly defeated the vast armies at the critical juncture of cows of the
King Virat being stolen. O the wielder of the Bow; the same nature will make you ready to fight.
(1297) Does a sufferer like his ailment? Does a poor man like his poverty? But they have to suffer
those conditions by their destiny!
(1298) The same destiny will not hesitate from doing its work by the power of God, and that God is
dwelling in your heart!
ई रः सवभूतानां ेशेऽजुन ित ित|
भामय सवभूतािन य ता ढािन मायया
Arjuna! God abides in the heart of all creatures, causing them to revolve according to their
destiny, by using his power of Maya- as if they are fixed on a wheel! (61)
(1299) The sunlike God arises in the inner organ of all beings, in the space of their hearts, and shines
