(1309) In that process every being adapts to the movement according to the past threads attached to it
individually.
(1310) O the great Archer! Just as the wind whirls the dry grass blades in the sky freely, so, the God
throws the Jeevas between the heaven and the earth.
(1311) Just as iron moves by the vicinity of a magnet, the beings move by the power of God.
(1312) Just as by the vicinity of the Moon, sea and other things undergo changes,
(1313) Which means that there is high tide in the sea, the Somakant stone becomes liquid and the
bird Chakora becomes happy and the night lilies bloom.
(1314) Similarly the only God with the force of the root Prakriti makes all the beings function in
their various ways and the same God is in your heart.
(1315) The sense of I, without the name of Arjuna- which is present in you, is that God in His real
nature.
(1316) Therefore, there is no doubt that this God will govern the Prakriti herself and will definitely
compel you to fight even if you decline.
(1317) Thus God is all-powerful and He controls the Prakriti and that Prakriti activates our organs.
(1318) So, you should leave the decision whether to fight or not to fight in the hands of that Prakriti,
which herself is under the command of the God residing in your heart.
तमेव शरणं ग छ सवभावेन भारत|
त पसादा परां शांितं थानं पा यिस शा तम्
O Bharata, you should surrender to him only by all your faith, so that by his grace you will attain
supreme peace and eternal state! (62)
(1319) And just as the waters of the river Ganges enter the sea totally, you should enter and merge in
this with all your inspiration, your body, speech and mind whole-heartedly.
(1320) Then by His grace you will enjoy your own Atmic state, being wedded to the young woman
named ‘peace’.
(1321,1322) The husband of goddess Laxmi said further- "O Partha, you will be the eternal king of
the kingdom of Atman, where the creation of the universe begins, and the rest takes the final rest
and experience itself experiences the experience.
