(1336) He would be deceiving himself only; and the sin of self deception would also be done by
him.
(1337) O Dhananjaya, your silence means, I think, that you wish that I should again tell you the gist
of this knowledge.
(1338) (Saint Dnyneshwar says) That time, Partha said - "O my generous Krishna, you very well
know my mind. Anyway, who is more knowledgeable here?
(1339) Actually everything other is the object of knowledge and you are the only knower. So, what
is the point in describing the 'Sun' as the 'Sun'?"
(1340) Upon this, Lord Shrikrishna asked- "Do you consider it an ordinary thing that you are
praising me in these words?
सवगु तमं भूयः शुणु मे परमं वचः|
इ ोऽिस मे ढिमित ततो व यािम ते िहतम्
Again listen to my most secret teaching. As you are extremely dear to me, I shall tell you what is
really good for your welfare. (64)
(1341) So, now give your comprehensive attention and listen to my teaching in its purity.
(1342) It is not merely to be spoken by me, because it is worth speaking and you should hear
because it is worth hearing; rather it is your great good fortune that has arisen now.
(1343) O Dhananjaya, is it not a fact that the young ones of the mother tortoise get nourishment
directly through her eyes even from a distance, and is it not a fact that the sky itself does the work
as a water-man for the bird Chataka?
(1344) So, we see that these impossible things also happen where they are not normally expected.
Therefore, who can tell what benefit one will not get if luck is on one's side?
(1345) Actually this knowledge is so strange that it can be enjoyed in unity only by sidetracking the
circle of qualities.
(1346) And my dearest friend, you should also know that the bliss in which there is nothing artificial
or outwardly showy, is the bliss of the state of Atman only.
(1347) Dhananjaya, please consider this. The mirror in which we see our reflection, is cleaned by us
only, but that is not for the sake of the mirror. It is for our sake.
(1348) So, Partha, I am talking to myself only, using you as another person for
