the sake of dialogue, but it is a dialogue with myself, because, is there real difference between us
as the "me" and the "you"?
(1349) Thus I am telling the innermost treasure of my soul, as if telling it to me only, because I am
very fond of such one-pointed devotees.
(1350) O the son of Pandu, for example, consider how while giving itself over to water, the salt
totally becomes one with it, and is not hesitant in any way.
(1351) Similarly, you do not keep anything reserved from me; so how can I keep anything back while
teaching you?
(1352) So, now listen to the most sacred, the deepest secret of my teaching, compared to which all
other secrets in the world become evidently open things.
म मना भव म ो म ाजी मां नम क
ु |
मामेवै यिस स यं ते पितजाने िपयोऽिस मे
You should be thinking of me only by your mind, become my devotee, perform Yadnyas only for
me and bow before me; thus you will come unto me only. This is the truth about which I swear,
because, you are very dear to me. (65)
(1353) You should do all your inner thinking and outer actions, making me their goal.
(1354) You should be within me totally, as the wind is totally within the sky.
(1355) In other words, make your mind a temple only dedicated to me, and fill your ears always
with the sound of my name and by my teaching.
(1356) Just as a wife looks at her husband with love, your eyes should look at the saints who are my
own counterparts pure with self knowledge.
(1357) I am the place where everything is situated. Therefore, let your tongue develop the habit of
uttering my names and keep it alive and alert.
(1358) Make it a point to see that whatever your hands do or wherever your feet walk will always
be for me.
(1359) O Pandava, whatever you will do to help others or oblige others, that will be the real Yadnya
done by you for me.
(1360) How many details should I touch to emphasize one thing? In short, consider yourself as a
servant and consider everybody as me, and make yourself qualified for doing service.
