(1361) When you will do like that, hatred about all the beings will disappear and you will have
humility by the understanding of myself as pervading everything and thus you will be totally
having refuge in me.
(1362) Then, in this apparently crowded world the idea of a third thing will disappear and there will
be real privacy between you and me.
(1363) Then, eventhough there may be any situation, we will enhance our enjoyment of mutual
relationship because I will be yours and you will be mine.
(1364) And, O Arjuna, when the impediment of the third factor will become extinct, you will merge
into me by becoming me.
(1365) For example, is there any difficulty in the way of reflection in the water becoming one with
the original object, when water is removed?
(1366) Or what prevents a wave from mixing up with the sea or wind from being one with the sky?
(1367) Similarly we appear to be two because of the nature of the body, but when that body is not
taken into account, you will become me.
(1368) Do not have any doubt about this. If you think otherwise, I warn you by taking an oth of your
own being.
(1369) My dear, to swear by your name is like swearing by Atman only, by myself only, but the
nature of real love is that it does not allow you to remember shyness.
(1370) Otherwise, I am the object of knowledge, I am free of the worldly life. I am the one by whose
power, the world appears to be real and I am the one whose orders, even Time cannot disobey.
(1371) When I am thus having always truthful thought and when I am continuously alert for the
welfare or the world, why should I make an effort to swear at all?
(1372) But dear Arjuna, I have left my creeds of divinity because I am crazy about you out of my
love; and thus I have become half of my original nature, and you have become full.
(1373) Dear Arjuna, this is like the king swearing by himself in order to achieve certain intended
work."
(1374) Thereupon Arjuna said, "The Lord may not speak something strange like this because all our
actions are accomplished by the power of your name alone.
(1375) And over and above this, you are advising me and at the same time swearing also. So I ask
you- "Is there any limit to your unscrutable ways?
