(1376) Though a little ray of light of the Sun makes the lotus bud bloom, the whole Sun in his full
glory arises for it.
(1377) The cloud gives rain enough to quench the thirst of the earth and to fill the sea, but is not the
thirst of the bird Chatak the cause of the cloud's generous outpouring?
(1378) Therefore, O the treasure of compassion! The most generous Lord, is not the answering to my
query just an instrument for generating this great generosity in you?
(1379) Thereupon the Lord said- "Let us drop this subject because this is not the occasion for going
into argument about these things. Please be sure that by doing as I have just now told, you will
definitely come unto me.
(1380) When salt falls into sea, does it not dissolve in the same moment? Has it any reason to wait
for some time?
(1381) Similarly if you worship me in all forms and beings, your ego will be destroyed and you will
be having the view that Atman is every thing and thus you will merge into me.
(1382) Thus I have shown you how, beginning from doing one's duty, step by step, the means reach
finally to the attainment of unity with me, in the proper sequence.
(1383) The sequence of this ever-sublimating nature of worship is that when all actions are
surrendered to me, the mind of the devotee remains peaceful and sensitive.
(1384) Then through this peace and alertness, he gains knowledge about me by which unity of the
devotee with me can be achieved.
(1385) Then, O Partha, the division between the means and the goal does not remain, or you have
nothing more to do.
(1386) My dear, because you have offered all your actions always to me, you have my grace and–
(1387) By the strength of this grace, the impediment in the way of fighting will be removed. I have
once for all become pleased with you, so, I will not leave you in the lurch any time.
(1388) Geeta is the light by which ignorance is dissipited together with the false appearance and
everywhere there is perception of me only, and it is the manifestation of this knowledge made
clear through similes, etc.
(1389) I have taught you in various ways, the knowledge of self-realization. Now throw away your
ignorance which has created the confusion about what is the right action and what is the wrong
action.
