सवधमा प र य य मामेक
ं शरणं वज|
अहं वा सवपापे यो मो िय यािम मा शुचः
Leaving all other paths and duties you should take refuge in me only. I shall free you of all sins!
Do not be depressed. (66)
(1390) Just as hope breeds sorrow, gossip with evil intent begets sins, and bad luck brings in
poverty.
(1391) So, by ignorance, the doubts about right and wrong action which further create the hell and
heaven, are brought into existence. So, sweep away all the concepts born out of ignorance by the
strength of this wisdom.
(1392) Just as we drop our false perception of serpent as soon as we actually lift the rope on which
the serpent was imagined or recognised, or we drop the activities of the dream as soon as we are
awake;
(1393) Or just as the yellow appearance of the moon changes into white when jaundice of the
observer is cured, or the bitter taste in the month changes when the fever is gone.
(1394) Similarly, when day is set, we do not see mirage and when we throw down the piece of
wood, we automatically throw down the fire hidden in it.
(1395) Similarly when we discard the ignorance which creates the confusion about right action and
wrong action, that complication is also discarded with it.
(1396) When this ignorance is destroyed, I alone remain as naturally as I remain alone when the
dream with the sleep is gone.
(1397) So, finally I alone remain when ignorance is destroyed, and no other thing remains. Then that
devotee, the Jeeva, becomes completely homogeneous with me.
(1398) My dear, to be one with me, without awareness of the separate self is called the surrendering
oneself to me.
(1399) Then unity with me remains valid just as the sky alone remains when the empty pot is gone.
(which created apparent division between the space in the pot and the space at large)
(1400) Arjuna, you should come and merge into me just as a golden bead is one with gold or wave is
one with water.
(1401) O the crowned one, here do not compare this with the surrendering of fire to the sea thinking
that the fire may burn up the sea! That never happens!
