(1402) It is sheer nonsense, sheerly ridiculous to imagine that after surrendering oneself to me, the
soul, the Jeeva maintains his identity.
(1403) O Dhananjaya, in the ordinary life you see that even an ordinary woman who marries a king,
enjoys all the glory of the Royalty.
(1404) So, do not have any thought that even after merging with the Lord of the universe which I am,
the knot of being a Jeeva still remains unsolved.
(1405) Therefore, to serve me by merging into me is very natural and easy. You should serve like
this so that you will attain the divine wisdom as a matter of course.
(1406) Then just as butter once churned out of buttermilk does not mix with that buttermilk, do what
you may;
(1407) You must worship me and surrender yourself to me, so that this divisive and confusing
thought about what is right action and what is wrong, will not be able to touch you at all.
(1408) Iron itself left alone, becomes rusty and mixes with earth, but if the magic stone touches it,
and turns it into gold, then it never rusts.
(1409) Or when once fire is produced by rubbing woods together, it does not remain confined to the
wood.
(1410) O Arjuna, does the Sun even see darkness? Does one experience in his waking state, his
false, illusory perceptions of the dream?
(1411) Similarly when there is unity with me, is there any reason for anything else to remain?
(1412) Therefore, do not have concept of any other, except me, in your mind. I am going to be all
your merits and sins.
(1413) Now the sin which is the sign of all bondage and which would have remained separate
earlier, will be futile, and destroyed by knowledge about me.
(1414) O intelligent Arjuna, when the salt falls into water it becomes water totally. Similarly if you
surrender yourself totally to me, you will be myself only.
(1415) O Dhananjaya, in this way you will be liberated. Please accept me. So that, I will liberate
you by my light in your heart.
(1416) Therefore, now onwards, you should not worry at all, you are intelligent. Armed with this
self-knowledge, you take refuge in me and in me only.’’
