(1417) The Lord Shrikrishna, who is the universally present, all-seeing and all- pervading god, said
thus to Arjuna.
(1418) Then he extended his right hand which was dark and beautiful, with a bracelet ring; and
embraced Arjuna, the greatest devotee.
(1419,1420) In this way, the Lord Shrikrishna used the occasion of embracing Arjuna so as to endow
him with his divine form and spirit, which the word and the intellect cannot grasp and while
trying to reach which, the word turns back by holding the intellect in its armpit. (this means
intellect and word are not successful in reaching it).
(1421) As soon as the bosom of Shrikrishna touched the bosom of Arjuna, the secret wisdom which
was the heart of the god entered into the heart of Arjuna, and thus he achieved unity with Arjuna
in his Atmic state without disturbing the duality.
(1422) Just as one lamp may be lit by touching another lamp to its flame, Shrikrishna merged Arjuna
into himself, but maintained the duality.
(1423) Then the ecstacy of the overflowing happiness was such that even the Lord Shrikrishna was
carried away drowned in it.
(1424) When one stream of speedy water meets similar stream, the space proves to be small, and the
quantity of water is so much and so forceful that waves jump into the sky.
(1425) Similar was the embrace of the two great people in which both could not contain the bliss
within themselves. Who can understand, how it happened? One can only say that all the universe
was completely filled with Narayana. (Now saint Dnyaneshwara summarizes –)
(1426) Thus the Lord Shrikrishna made manifest this scripture of Geeta which is the essential
teaching of Vedas and, therefore, is the purest philosophy having all the authority.
(1427) Perhaps you may ask, ‘‘How is this Geeta the origin of Vedas?’’ Therefore, I am going to
explain it clearly, which is a well-known fact.
(1428) It is well-known that Vedas are born out of the exhalation of Breath of Mahavishnu. He
himself is telling by taking an oth in Geeta that Geeta is the origin of Vedas.
(1429) Therefore, it is correct to say that Geeta is origin of Vedas. This can be proved in another
way also.
(1430) That in which any-thing, not being destroyed, becomes merged in a minute form should be
called its seed.
(1431) And just as the whole tree is contained in a seed; so also the Vedas having all the three
