divisions, are contained in Geeta.
(1432) Therefore, I feel that Geeta is the seed of Vedas, and this is also quite evident.
(1433) The three divisions of Geeta are beautifully shining like ornaments of jewellery which adorn
a beautiful body.
(1434) Now I shall tell clearly where these three divisions of Karma etc. are evident in the Geeta.
(1435) The first chapter contains the introduction to the subject of this science of Geeta. In the
second chapter, the philosophy of Sankhyas is elucidated.
(1436) In the second chapter, it is said that the Sankhya philosophy does not expect any other means
than knowledge for attaining liberation.
(1437) Then in the third chapter, the subject is begun as to the means which the seekers of liberation,
who are tied down by ignorance, should adopt.
(1438) That is, the seeker is advised to avoid the selfish actions and prohibited actions, which
create attachment and pride about the body, and they should perform their proper routine and
occasional duties without mistake.
(1439) The Lord has given his verdict in this chapter that these duties should be performed with
clear, pious mind. This is the division dedicated to Karma.
(1440) Further, how these routine duties properly performed become instrumental to cut the bondage
of ignorance?
(1441) Asking such questions when the seeker comes to the stage of the aspirant of liberation, the
Lord says that he should perform actions and surrender them to the absolute Brahman.
(1442) The Lord Shrikrishna says that the regular actions which are performed by the body, speech
or mind should be offered to the God, as and when they are performed.
(1443) The sweet dish of the description of how through the path of Yoga of action worship of God
is done, is offered in the last part of the fourth chapter.
(1444) The same teaching that "God should be worshipped through the performance of action" is
continued upto the end of the eleventh chapter, which describes the seeing of universal form of
God.
(1445) So from the fourth to the eleventh chapter there are eight chapters which form the second
division of Geeta dedicated to God, which the Geeta has discussed by removing all objections.
