(1446) And the delicate knowledge which a man gets through the devotion to God and which is the
sanctified and graceful succession of Teacher-disciple relationship of knowledge,
(1447) Should be further developed by virtues like non-jealousy, not having pride, etc.; so teaches
the twelfth chapter, we think.
(1448) From that twelfth chapter to the end of the fifteenth chapter the final ripe fruit of knowledge is
the subject of teaching.
(1449) Therefore, upto the chapter which begins with the words "Oordhwamoolam", all the four
chapters deal with the division of knowledge.
(1450) So, Veda, or Shruti it is with its three divisions that has become more beautiful by donning
the bejewelled ornaments of the verses of Geeta.
(1451) Thus, the fruit of liberation about which the Vedas so enthusiastically swear that it is the only
thing which must be realized–
(1452) And the qualities of ignorance and other vices, which are like enemies always opposing the
knowledge as "the means of attaining that liberation" are explained in the sixteenth chapter.
(1453) In the seventeenth chapter it is taught that these enemies should be defeated by taking the
support of the rules laid down in the scriptures as regards performance of action.
(1454) Thus, the Lord has discussed the hidden meaning of the Vedas from the first chapter to the
end of the seventeenth chapter.
(1455) And this is the eighteenth chapter which is giving us the summary of all the teaching of Geeta.
This is really the high peak or dome of Geeta.
(1456) In short, Geeta with all the chapters taken together is really the very image of Veda, being
most generous in imparting self-knowledge.
(1457) Veda is replete with tremendous riches of knowledge, but there is no other book so miser in
imparting knowledge because it has a private talk with only the three castes.
(1458) Veda has stopped there only, without giving any place in the temple of knowledge to the other
human beings like women, Shoodras etc.
(1459) Therefore, I feel that Veda has thought of retribution of its past mistake, and therefore, has
become available by wearing the apparel of Geeta, for all human beings.
(1460) Not only this, but Veda is available to anybody by the way of entering into his mind as the
meaning; entering into his ear by listening; and remaining in his mouth by way of reciting the
