From anger, confusion arises, from confusion loss of memory and from loss of memory,
destruction of intellect takes place, which in turn destroys the man. (63)
(321) If objects are remembered in the mind, there arises attachment even though the man is not in
contact with them, and immediately with that attachment, the desire becomes prevalent.
(322) Where desire arises, disturbance and anger are already evident and when anger arises,
confusion of mind also takes place.
(323) If confusion takes place, memory or awareness of our own self is destroyed just as a flame is
extinguished by a whip of wind.
(324) The condition of that person who loses his self-awareness is like the night which at sunset,
devours the sunrays.
(325) Then there is darkness of ignorance only, which envelops all the consciousness; and intellect
becomes very much disturbed.
(326) O, the Great Archer, just as a man who is blind from his birth becomes very pitiable if he is
afraid and starts running, similar is the condition of the intellect of such a man.
(327) When such loss of self-memory takes place, the intellect is completely jeopardized and then
knowledge is totally uprooted.
(328) When spirit leaves the body, what is then the condition of that body? Similar is the plight of
the man who has no memory of himself.
(329) Therefore, O Arjuna, please listen. If a small spark of fire touches fuel, the fire spreads so
rapidly that it may cover all the three worlds.
(330) Similarly even if by chance our mind dwells inwardly on any sense-object, the fall is so great
and so certain!
राग ेषिवयु ै तु िवषयािनि दयै रन्|
आ मव यैिवधेया मा पसादमिधग छित
But the seeker who performs all actions, surrounded by various objects but keeps his sense-
organs quite under control, and free from likes and dislikes about anything, attains the state of peace
of mind. (64)
(331) Therefore, the sense-objects should be totally banished from the mind itself so that the
attraction and the repulsion will automatically be destroyed.
