whole Geeta.
(1461) There may be a man, who writes down the whole Geeta for someone, who usually recites it,
and keeps that written book with himself.
(1462) Even for such a simple soul, Geeta has opened a free camp of dinner, where the joy of
liberation is served at the city square of worldly life.
(1463) Just as the sky is the only universal place open for all, either to fly in the sky or to sit on the
earth or to bask in the sunshine;
(1464) Similarly, without asking anybody, whether he is of higher class or lower class, Geeta
satisfies the whole world by its free distribution of the liberation.
(1465) Therefore, we can say that being afraid of the blame given to the Veda in ancient times, the
Veda has taken refuge in Geeta and thus has become worthy of its fair name and fame.
(1466) Therefore, Geeta which is taught by Lord Shrikrishna to the son of Pandu should be
considered as the image of Veda, which has become easily followable by all people.
(1467) Just as the cow gives milk for the calf only but that milk meets the need of all the household,
so Geeta though taught to Arjuna as apparently seems to be, has actually emancipated the whole
world.
(1468) The cloud comes running to quench the thirst of the bird Chataka, but by the rainfall all the
nature becomes cool and happy.
(1469) Or only for the lotus which has no one other to look upto, the Sun rises daily, but by his rays,
the eyes of the whole world become happy.
(1470) Similarly, for the purpose of satisfying the questions of Arjuna, the Lord Shrikrishna has
made manifest the Geeta, but it has removed the great burden of mundane life from the whole
world.
(1471) The Lord Shikrishna is not only the husband of the goddess Laxmi, (as described in
mythology) but is really a Sun who arises in the 'sky' of mouth and by his talk illumines all the
three worlds with the light of the secrets of spiritual scriptures.
(1472) Blessed and pure is the family born in which Arjuna became worthy of this knowledge and
opened the gates of the precincts of Geeta for all the world.
(1473) But let this ornamental language be kept aside. The Lord Shrikrishna, who was the Guru,
discretely brought the unity of Arjuna with himself back to the level of duality.
