(1474) He then said, "Pandava, did your soul agree to this science of action?" And Arjuna said, "O
my lord, it is only by your grace!"
(1475) Upon this the Lord again said, "O Pandava, it requires great luck to be able to get the hidden
treasure, but seldom there is a man who is fortunate enough to utilize properly the treasure which
he has got.
(1476) Let us take the example of the churning of the ocean of milk; the ocean of uncurdled milk.
How great must have been the efforts required to be put in, for churning it?
(1477) Those efforts were at last successful because the gods and demons saw by their own eyes the
nectar produced in it, but afterwards they failed in the proper care required to be taken.
(1478) As a result, that which was acquired for attaining immortality, itself became the cause of
death. When prosperity is achieved without wisdom as to its proper use, this type of disaster
takes place.
(1479) Do you not know that the king Nahusha became the ruler of the heaven, but was unable to
behave property in harnessing the kingdom and so he became a serpent?
(1480) Therefore O Dhananjaya, you have a great treasure of past merit, and that is why you have
become eligible for such knowledge of divine wisdom.
(1481) Now, therefore, you should maintain the discipline required for it and utilize this knowledge
by unwavering loyalty.
(1482) Otherwise, O Arjuna, without taking due care to maintain the discipline laid down for it, if
you start practising it unwisely, the disaster will be just like that which took place at the end of
the churning of the ocean of milk.
(1483) O the crowned one, even if you have in your possession, a cow having all good signs and
giving plenty of milk, you will be able to drink her milk only if you know how to milk her.
(1484) Similarly, Guru is pleased and the disciple is properly learned, but if that learning is used
with discipline, then only it is useful.
(1485) Therefore, listen with great respect, the discipline which is laid down for the following of
this Yoga, this science of action.
इदं ते नातप काय नाभ ाय कदाचन|
न चाशुशूषवे वा यं न च मां योऽ यसूयित
This should not be told to a man, who does not observe any penance, who is not a devotee, who
