does not want to listen, and who is inwardly jealous of me. (67)
(1486) O Partha, you should never tell any man who does not observe any penance, this science of
Geeta, which you have learnt by your devotion.
(1487) Even if one is penant, but is not a loyal devotee of the Guru, you should avoid him as the
Vedas avoid the lowest born Shoodras.
(1488) And just as one does not throw the sacred food used in the sacrificial rituals to a crow
eventhough it may be a veteran, old crow, you should not give this knowledge to a man, who has
observed penance up to his old age, but has no respect for his teacher.
(1489) Not only this, a man may be doing penance, he may have a devotion to his teacher, but has no
interest in listening to this Geeta.
(1490) If there is such a man, he will be respectable for his two virtues, but will not deserve
listening to Geeta.
(1491) Even if a pearl may be very costly can a thread enter it, if it has no hole?
(1492) Who denies that the ocean is very vast and deep? But all the rain becomes useless on its
surface.
(1493) Why should not the good food be given to a really hungry man instead of feeding a man, who
is already overfed, and wasting it?
(1494) Therefore, however great a man may be, if he has no desire to listen, you should not think of
telling him these things even as a past time fun.
(1495) For example, our eye is able to appreciate the beauty of form, but how can it know the joy of
fragrance? So, everything becomes fruitful in its right place.
(1496) Therefore, the masters of penance and devotees may be given due respect, but if they have no
respect for listening to this Geeta, they should be avoided while imparting this knowledge.
(1497) Now, there may the virtue of penance, devotion, desire to listen, - though all these conditions
are fulfilled by a man,
(1498) But if he utters words of scorn about me who am the Lord of all these worlds and the creator
of this science of Geeta.
(1499) And those who talk loosely blaming me and my devotees- you should not consider them
worthy of listening to Geeta.
