(1500) All their well-earned virtues are like lamp-stand, which is not lit on a dark night.
(1501) The body may be beautiful, fair-skinned, and well-decorated with ornaments, but may be
lifeless.
(1502) There may be a temple of pure gold, but its entrance may be menacingly guarded by a female
cobra.
(1503) There may be very good food cooked, but mixed with poison or there may be apparent
friendship with hidden treachery.
(1504) Similarly, my dear wise Arjuna, you should consider that all the penance, devotion, talent of
that man are polluted, who blames me or my devotees.
(1505) Therefore, O Dhananjaya, though such a man may be a devotee and an intelligent person
having done a great amount of penance, you should not let him touch this sacred science.
(1506) How much more should I emphasize this? Even if the man who blames me, may be as great as
God the creator, you should not reveal this knowledge to him even as a matter of fun.
य इदं परमं गु ं म े विभधा यित|
भि ं मिय परां क
ृ वा मामेवै य यसंशयः
He who will tell this most secret knowledge to my devotees, will do by it, my worship of a very
high degree and then will come to me, without any doubt. (68)
(1507) O the great Archer, one who fills the base of his devotional temple very solidly by the
penance (of good conduct, etc.) and has himself become the strong temple of devotion to the Guru.
(1508) And its front door, denoting his desire to listen, is always kept open; and the dome of that
temple is studded with gems of "avoidance of gossip;"
(1509) In such blotless temple of the devotee, you should establish the God Almighty in the form of
the gem that is Geeta. Then you will be considered as adorable as myself in the world.
(1510, 1511) Because in the branches of the Geeta, in the shape of the chapter, the Pranava which
was in the foetus of A.U. and M and was confined in one syllable of Om, has spread widely, or
one may say that this is Gayatri the vine which has grown upon her the flowers and fruits of
various verses.
(1512) He who makes this Geeta which is the secret of all Mantras, easily embraced by the devotees
just as if the most loving mother and her totally dependant child are meeting each other.
