(1513) So, he who does help my devotees to meet this Geeta with that extreme love, becomes after
his bodily death, one with me only.
न च त मा मनु येषु कि मे िपयक
ृ मः|
भिवता न च मे त माद यः िपयतमो भुिव
Nobody among all the human beings is more devoted to do what I like most, and there will not be
anybody on earth, who is more dear to me. (69)
(1514) When my devotee lives without attachment to his body which he wears as loosely as an
ornament, he is liked by me more than all others.
(1515) Among the knowledge men of penance and men performing all ritualistic actions, he is so
dear to me that,
(1516) Throughout the world, there is nobody else so dear, because he teaches this Geeta among my
devotees.
(1517) Cherishing love and devotion for me with all my glory, he peacefully recites Geeta in a group
of my devotees.
(1518, 1519) Like the spring season which makes the trees excited with new tender leaves, making
them nod happily by the delicate breeze, by wetting the eyes of the flowers by fragrant honey-
juice, giving a loving call by the high pitched slender notes of a cuckoo, this man enters the
garden of my devotees. (By his words, the listeners are excited. They nod their heads in
appreciation of his thoughts, they have tears in their flower-like eyes due to loving emotions as he
talks to them addressing them eagerly, calling them as O sirs! Please listen!)
(1520) Or just as the life of the birds Chakora is fulfilled when the Moon rises in the sky or just as
responding through thunder to the mewing of peacocks, the clouds float in the sky in rainy season.
(1521) Like these, the man scatters freely the gems of the verses of Geeta in the assembly of saints,
keeping all his attention riveted to my beautiful Omnipresent form.
(1522) There is nothing so dear to me like such a man, neither there was in the past, nor will be in
future.
(1523) O Arjuna, I have been keeping such a man preserved with care in my heart, who gives the
sweet dinner of the meaning of Geeta to the saintly listeners.
अ ये यते च य इमं ध य संवादमावयोः|
ानय ेन तेनाहिम ः यािमित मे मितः
