And I am of the opinion that he who studies this religious dialogue of both of us, has really
offered the sacrificial ritual of knowledge to me! (70)
(1524) This is the story which gives birth to the religion of liberation, grown in our meeting and
dialogue.
(1525) One who will recite without making mistake even a syllable in it, this dialogue which
imparts knowledge about all the four human achievements,
(1526) Will become pure-minded by kindling the fire of knowledge and burning in it the ignorance
as offering of the oblation, and will please me the Paramatman.
(1527) O the wise Arjuna, even a man who does not know the meaning of this Geeta but recites it by
mouth, will get the same joy which the men of knowledge get by discussing its meaning at length.
(1528) In short the man who recites Geeta gets the same fruit as the man of knowledge may get.
Really Geeta the mother does not make any distinction between the child which is wise and the
child which is innocent and ignorant!
श वाननसूय शृणुयादिप यो नरः|
सोऽिप मु ः शुभॉ ं लोकान् पा नुया पु यकमणाम्
And a man who has faith and has no jealousy in his mind and who listens to this Geeta, will also
reach the higher heavens which persons of meritorious deeds reach and will be eventually free. (71)
(1529) And he who does not blame anybody following any path, and has complete faith in the
listening to Geeta,
(1530) Experiences that no sooner do the letters of Geeta are heard by him, his sin runs quickly
away from him.
(1531) Just as the animals in a forest run away as soon as a forest fire breaks out,
(1532) Or just as the darkness disappears in the sky as soon as the Sun shines bright on the eastern
mountain.
(1533) Similarly, the whole sin accumulated from the beginning of the world, gets destroyed as soon
as Geeta echoes and re-echoes in the main gates of the ears.
(1534) Thus the vine that is our life becomes clean and blossoms with the beautiful flowers of merits
and in the end, it yields unlimited fruit.
(1535) I will even say that there is the merit earned by the listener of having performed as many
