Ashwamedha sacrifices as the number of the letters of Geeta enter his ears.
(1536) So, in fine, it is a fact that by listening to Geeta, sins are destroyed, merit is earned and the
kingdom of heaven is gained later on.
(1537) Before coming into me and merging in me, he takes the first halt in the heaven, enjoys
whatever happiness he wishes to enjoy there and finally comes unto me only.
(1538) O Dhananjaya, such are the joyful fruits gained by the listener and the reader of Geeta. Now
how much should I expand on this point?
(1539) Therefore, I feel that enough is said in praise of this teaching. Now I am going to ask you a
question about the main purpose for which all this philosophy was expounded from the beginning.
कि चदेत छ
ु तं पाथ वयैकागेण चेतसा|
कि चद ानसंमोहः पण ते धनंजय
O Partha, have you listened to all this with concentrated mind? O Dhananjaya, is the confusion of
ignorance destroyed? (72)
(1540) So, please tell me, O Pandava, has this whole doctrine of scriptures been well established in
your concentrated mind?
(1541) Have your ears conveyed everything as it is which we have put into them?
(1542) Or is something lost in transit, spoiled, twisted or overturned?
(1543) If all that we have taught you is stored in tact in your heart, please answer the question that I
will ask.
(1544) I am asking you whether the confusion which was born out of your ignorance about your own
self, the Atman, has by now gone or not?
(1545) But why should I ask this abstract question? Tell me only whether you see any separate
action or non-action?
(1546) By asking this question the Lord brought Arjuna to such a state that instead of dissolving in
the joyful juice of non-duality he was again pulled back to his state of duality.
(1547) Arjuna had reached the stage of absolute Brahman, but the Lord Shrikrishna did not allow
him to cross the limits of divisions and duality.
(1548) Otherwise, was it possible that the omniscient God was not knowing what he was doing? But
he asked this question so that Arjuna would again come back to the firm ground of duality.
