(1561) Further, you are telling verbally just like a loving mother, that secret which cannot be known
by any efforts on our part.
(1562) Now, as you are still asking whether my confusion has gone, I wish to tell you that by your
grace the confusion has gone.
(1563) I was deluded by the false concept that I am Arjuna, but by knowing you and that you and I
are one, I am free of that delusion, and now both the asking of question and answering it are gone.
(1564) I am so enlightened by the teaching given by you that even the seeds of confusion are not
remaining in me.
(1565) Now, since there is unity with you, the question whether to act or not to act, which arises
only in the state of duality, is no more in existence.
(1566) Now there is no doubt in me because I have attained that state, where action itself has no
place.
(1567) As I have realized my own self the Atman, by your grace, I have nothing to do as a necessary
thing, and only "to obey you" remains!
(1568) Because, that, which is the only visible thing by which all visible things are destroyed, that
which, though a thing, destroys the sense of two-ness in the whole world, that which is one,
single, yet abides everywhere in all the universe;
(1569) That, by being connected with which all connections or bindings are cut down; that, by the
rising of aspiration for which, all ambitions and hopes disappear and that, by meeting which the
self meets itself;
(1570) That is my deity of worship, which "you" are, who accompany unity, you whose grace makes
it possible to step into unity;
(1571) And you are the deity whose service I should do for ever, by destroying the doubts about
what is to be done and what is not, and by becoming absolute Brahman myself.
(1572) You are he who shares with your devotee your own glory, like the sea who transforms the
river into sea-ness as it merges into the sea.
(1573) You are my Guru, as described above, who are untrammeled by any accretions, and who are
the only God worthy of service and worship.
(1574) You have destroyed the closed door of duality which was between us, and made it an easy
and comfortable thing for me to serve you.
