(1575) So, O the god of the gods, I will not hesitate to obey any order whatsoever which you may
give me.’’
(1576) Listening to this talk of Arjuna, the Lord danced with delight inwardly and said to himself- I
have verily received the best fruit in all the world in the person of my dear Arjuna.
(1577) Does not the milk of ocean forget his limits of waves due to the delight of seeing his own son,
the Moon, having completed the phases and become full-moon?"
* * *
(1578) So, thus even Sanjaya was greatly delighted to see the God and Arjuna meeting each other as
if on the wedding dais of their dialogue, a meeting which was the meeting of the whole lifetime.
(1579) With that exhilarated mood, Sanjaya said to the king Dhritarashtra- "Sir, how great is the
grace of the highly respected sage Vyasa that we both are safe and protected during these times of
war!
(1580) Sir, you have no physical eyes to see and move about doing routine work also, but you have
the inward sight of the mind which can think properly.
(1581) And by the grace of Vyasa, I am also able to know these things, though I was allowed to
move about among the great brave heros only for the testing of the caliber of horses and to drive
the chariots.
(1582) Then, this war is such a dangerous situation that whichever party, whichever army meets the
defeat, it is our defeat only.
(1583) And it is the most wonderful thing that we are given the grace of enjoying the bliss of the
state of Brahman, even in this impossible condition!’’
(1584) Though Sanjaya said all this in his ecstacy, the king sat there silently without any feeling, just
as a stone lying in full moonlight.
(1585) Seeing this apathy, Sanjaya's spirits were dampened a bit, but he could not help continue
further as he was carried away by the joy.
(1586) Sanjaya talked further, only because he was overwhelmed by the ecstacy of being fortunate to
see and hear the divine presence and dialogue of Arjuna and Shrikrishna, but there was no sign of
any encouragement or interest in Dhritarashtra!
संजय उवाच-
