(1600) Sir, if salt is caught in between two streams of water, can it resist both of them or will it be
immediately absorbed in both?
(1601) Similar is the condition of my mind when I think again about the Lord and Arjuna unified in
their conversation.’’
(1602) While Sanjaya was speaking these words, the pious devotional emotions overpowered him
in such a way that he forgot his own identity as Sanjaya.
(1603) The more his body was shivering by the joyous goose-pimples, his body began to shrink
further and his trembling became more evident than the sweat produced by his body due to
blissful ecstacy.
(1604) His eyes were filled with tears because of the experience of unity, the tears which were
rather the trickling of nectar turned into streams.
(1605) His words were held up in the throat which was choked with emotion and in the suffocated
breath the words thus could not be contained in his mind nor could be spoken clearly.
(1606) Or rather, by the manifestation of all the eight Sattwic emotions, Sanjaya actually seemed to
be the 'city square' where the dialogue of Shrikrishna and Arjuna took place.
(1607) But this ecstacy is such an upheaval which subsides automatically and therefore, Sanjaya
became a bit quiet and aware of himself and his surroundings.
यासपसादात् शुतवानेतद् गु महं परम्|
योगं योगे रात् क
ृ णा सा ा कथयतः वयम्
By the grace of the sage Vyasa, I heard this secret Yoga of all the secret knowledges, from
Shrikrishna, the God of Yoga, while He was Himself telling it. (75)
(1608) After the ecstacy subsided, Sanjaya said (to Dhritarashtra), I have heard today by the grace of
sage Vyasa, the Knowledge which is not known even by Upanishads.
(1609) And in a moment, I, as Sanjaya, was merged into Brahman, and the world of duality of "you"
and "I" was dissolved.
(1610) By the blessings of Vyasa, today I listened to the teaching of Lord Shrikrishna, where all
paths of Yoga come to their final rest.
(1611) –The dialogue which the Lord Shrikrishna had with Arjuna by adopting for himself playfully
the position of duality.
