(1612) There, my mouth has become the small channel for that stream of know-ledge, only by the
blessing of the Guru Vyasa, which is really indescribable.
राज सं मृ य सं मृ य संवादिममम ुतम्|
क
े शवाजुनयोः पु यं यािम च मुहमुहः
O king, by remembering again and again this sacred and wonderful dialogue of Keshava and
Arjuna, I am having fits of ecstacy again and again! (76)
(1613) When Sanjaya started to speak again and as he called- "O king!", he was again overwhelmed
with joy and was fully filled with the glow of exhilaration, just as a jewel on which its own lustre
shines.
(1614) Just as the peaks of Himalaya mountain shine brilliantly white when the Moon is in the sky,
but when the Sun rises, they melt;
(1615) Similarly when Sanjaya regained his body consciousness, he remembered the dialogue of
Shrikrishna and Arjuna, and when he remembered that, he again lost his separate identity. This
was happening again and again.
त च सं मृ य सं मृ य पम य ुतं हरे ः|
िव मयो मे महान् राजन् यािम च पुनः पुनः
And again and again remembering that extraordinarily wonderful universal appearance of the
Lord Hari, O King, I am again filled with wonder and become ecstatic again and again. (77)
(1616) Then Sanjaya stood up and asked, "O king, when I describe the universal presence, the vast
form of Shri Hari, why are you just sitting quietly?
(1617) How can we avoid that, which is seen by not seeing, which is existing by not existing, and is
remembered by forgetting it?
(1618) There is no scope even to appreciate its glory by standing aloof at a distance, because the
flow of the Ganges of knowledge is so tumultuous that it is catching me and carrying me with it."
(1619) Thus he bathed in the Teertha (sacred waters) of the dialogue of Shrikrishna and Arjuna and
surrendered his ego.
(1620) Sanjaya in that state, somehow uttered some inarticulate words in a stammering manner and
frequently spoke with a choked up throat the name of Shrikrishna.
(1621) But Dhritarashtra was not giving any importance to this state of the mind of Sanjaya and was
about to think of something about this, but–
