(1622) Having experienced the joy and subduing the emotions, Sanjaya somehow restrained himself.
(1623) Then side-tracking something which was proper to say at such an occasion, the king asked-
"Sanjaya! What is this that you are doing?"
(1624) "For what purpose has Vyasa told you to sit here and what are you talking about
irrelevantly?"
(1625) When a forest dweller is taken to a palace, it is natural that he would feel out of place there
and when the day dawns, the demons, the night prowlers would feel that it is night for them.
(1626) One finds it tasteless if he is given what he cannot relish; so, it was natural that Dhritarashtra
found Sanjaya's statements and the state of mind quite contrary and meaningless.
(1627) Dhritarashtra pointedly asked- "O Sanjaya, please tell me"- whom will this war which has
arisen, give victory finally?
(1628) Anyway my mind says that the power of Duryodhana is always superior.
(1629) And compared to the other party, his army is also one and a half larger in number. So, would
it not bring final victory to us?
(1630) At least that is what we surmise! But what is your own prophesy? That is not known to us.
Whatever it may be, do speak out what is your conjecture!"
यत योगे रः क
ृ णो यत पाथ धनुधरः|
तत शीिवजयो भूितधुवा नीितमितमम
Wherever there is Shrikrishna, the Lord of Yoga; and wherever there is Arjuna, the wielder of
bow (The great Archer), there will be the Riches, the victory, the prosperity and abiding, durable
good morality. This is my conviction."- Sanjaya said. (78)
(1631) Upon this, Sanjaya said, "I do not know, who will be victorious between the two. But one
thing is certain, where there is life, there is living.
((1632) Where there is Moon, there is moon-light. Where there is Lord Shiva, there is Ambika.
Where there are saints, the discrimination is sure to be there. Is it not?
(1633) Where there is king, there is army. Where there is courtesy, there is relationship. Where there
is fire, there is power to burn. Is it not?
(1634) Where there is compassion, there is religion. Where there is religion, there is joy, where
there is joy, god is surely there.
