(1635) Where there is spring, there are gardens blossoming, where there are such gardens, there are
flowers. And where there are flowers there are groups of hovering black-bees.
(1636) Where there is Guru, there is knowledge. Where there is knowledge, there is the perception
of Atman, and where there is that perception, there is satisfaction.
(1637) Similarly, where there is good fortune, there is enjoyment of pleasures. Where there is that
enjoyment, there is enthusiasm; and where there is Sun, there is light.
(1638) Similarly, where there is the king Shrikrishna, who makes all the human achievements worth
their name, there is definitely the goddess of Riches.
(1639) And he whose wife is the divine mother Laxmi, will not the other occult powers like power
to become minute, power to become heavy etc. become his maids obeying his orders?
(1640) Lord Shrikrishna is himself the very image of victory, and where he is, that party will
definitely be victorious.
(1641) Arjuna is famous for his name Vijay, which itself means victory, and Lord Shrikrishna is
himself 'victory' as said above. So there is victory to that side together with the great prosperity.
(1642) Will not the ordinary trees compete with, and defeat the divine wish trees, in that country,
where such father and mother like Lord Shrikrisna, the Riches and victory are there to support
them?
(1643) Why will not the ordinary stones in that country be like Chintamani, and why will not the
earth there have the qualities of gold?
(1644) O King, what wonder is there, if the rivers in that country will flow with nectar instead of
water? You should think about this yourself.
(1645) Whatever the people of the country may speak their words will be Vedas, and will they
themselves not become the embodiments of Sat-Chit-Ananda?
(1646) The heaven and the liberation are under the control of the man who has parents like
Shrikrishna and goddess Laxmi to protect him.
(1647) Therefore, I know that where there is Lord Shrikrishna, the spouse of Laxmi, all the powers
are definitely in their service.
(1648) Just as the cloud which is born out of the sea is more useful than the sea itself, the same was
the position as regards Shrikrishna and Arjuna.
(1649) No doubt the Guru, as the magic stone Parees is very important because by its touch the iron
