is turned into gold, but for usual business in the world, it is gold that is useful.
(1650) In this example, some may find that the Guru is counted lower in importance, but do not think
so, because the fire gives its own light to the world through the lamp.
(1651) Similarly, though Arjuna began to seem more brilliant than the Lord; in his praise the Lord
Himself is praised.
(1652) Moreover, usually the father has a desire that his son should outshine him; that desire was
fruitful in the case of Lord Shrikrishna.
(1653) Or, O King! That party where Arjuna is helping by the grace of Lord Shrikrishna,
(1654) Is definitely going to be victorious! Why should you have doubt about this? If that army will
not win, victory itself will lose all its meaning!
(1655) Therefore, where the Lord Shrikrishna is always there with Goddess Laxmi, and where
Arjuna the son of Pandu is there, that party is going to be victorious.
(1656) If at all your mind has any trust in what the sage Vyasa has told, you should take this
statement as valid and unbeatable.
(1657) There is happiness with all auspicious things where the Lord Narayana (Shri Krishna) and
Arjuna the greatest devotee are ready.
(1658) If this statement proves to be false, I swear that I will not claim to be the disciple of sage
Vyasa!’’ ‘‘So declaring in a louder voice, Sanjay raised both his hands above in the air.
Here Dnyaneshwar says -
(1659) In this way the whole gamut of the epic of Mahabharata was told by Sanjaya to the king
Dhritarashtra, by putting it in this last verse.
(1660) If we consider the whole vastness of the fire as universal element, it is very great, but in
order to give light at night time, to do the job which the Sun does in the daytime, it has to be used
by lighting a small wick in a lamp.
(1661) Similarly, the endless expanse of Brahman as Om, the sacred word, became smaller in the
form of Mahabharat with its one lakh and twenty-five thousand verses; and Geeta with its seven
hundred verses came as a summary of that Mahabharata.
(1662) And this last verse of the seven hundred verses of Geeta, the most important verse, giving the
final verdict of the narrator Sanjaya, is the summarized teaching of the Geeta, in a nutshell.
