(1663) It will be considered that the man who lovingly meditates in his heart upon this one single
verse, has become victorious over all ignorance.
(1664) These seven hundred verses may be considered as seven hundred steps of Geeta, or the
verses are the supreme nectar in the heaven that is Geeta.
(1665) Or, to my imagination, these verses appear as seven hundred pillars of the Royal court of the
king Atman, which is the Geeta.
(1666) Or, this Geeta should be considered as the goddess who is praised by these verses which are
also seven hundred as in the book of Saptashatee, which is the story of the greatness of the
Goddess, who gives emancipation to the demon buffalo which is ‘ignorant confusion,’ and has
become pleased.
(1667) Therefore, he who will be a devotee of this Geeta by his mind, body and speech will be the
emperor of the empire of blissful joy.
(1668) Or in this Geeta, Lord ShriKrishna has given us all these seven hundred verses which surpass
even the Sun, in the matter of dissipating the darkness of ignorance.
(1669) Or this Geeta has become the garden of grape-vine, where letters are grapes and which has
become the place of cool rest for the tired travellers on the road of worldly life.
(1670) Or the Geeta may be imagined as a beautiful pool in the form of the mouth of the Lord
Shrikrishna which pool has these seven hundred Lotus flowers and around which saints are
hovering joyfully like black-bees.
(1671) Or these seven hundred verses are none else than court-singers praising the Geeta.
(1672) Or by erecting the compound wall of these seven hundred verses, in the beautiful town of
Geeta, Vedas, like some Brahmins have come to reside.
(1673) Or these verses may be said to be the arms extended by the loving wife Geeta to embrace her
husband the Atman.
(1674) These are seven hundred black-bees, on the lotus of Geeta, or waves on the sea of Geeta or
the horses of the chariot of Geeta.
(1675) Or, having the auspicious Sinhastha of Arjuna at hand, there is the gathering of seven hundred
pilgrims who have arrived at the river of Geeta for sacred bath. (Sinhastha is the period of time
when Jupiter is in the position against Leo, the 5th zodiacal constellation.)
(1676) Or, this is not a chain of seven hundred verses; but a rosary of gems Chitamanis or a line of
wish-trees, which attract even the ascetic minds.
