(1677) As each verse is better than another in this Geeta, how can one praise each and every verse?
(1678) Just as the distinction of milching or non-milching, barren cow cannot be made about the
Divine cow which supplies every need;
(1679) Or just as there is no back side or front side for flame of a lamp; or no smaller or bigger Sun,
or there is no shallowness or depth to be counted in respect of the sea of nectar.
(1680) Similarly, we should not say that certain verses are first or last. Can we say that flowers of
Parijaat are small or large, fresh or otherwise?
(1681) And there is no further necessity of my justifying that there is no less or more important
among the verses in Geeta, because one important thing is that in reading Geeta, there remains no
difference as to who is the teacher, the reader, and who is the disciple to be taught.
(1682) Even ordinary men know that in Geeta it is the God who is speaking and he is speaking about
Himself only.
(1683) This unity is so tight and strong that the benefit which a reader gets by knowing its meaning is
also got by the one who only recites it merely by his mouth.
(1684) So, I need no more justification to be made about Geeta. Geeta is the very image of the God
in the form of literature.
(1685) When any science has done its job to give its knowledge to the reader, it does not remain in
its effective existence; but Geeta is not like that. It is eternal, ever living, not destructible, verily
the Brahman.
(1686) O! Just see how under the pretext of teaching Arjuna, the Lord has, out of his compassion,
made easily available the supreme bliss of Atman for all the world!
(1687) Just as pretending to quench the thirst of the bird Chakora, the Moon cools all the world,
(1688) Or just as making a pretence of pleasing the sage Gautama, the Lord Shankara released the
heavenly waters of Godavari for giving cool comfort to all the people,
(1689) Similarly, making Arjuna a calf, the Lord Shrikrishna, as a cow, gave this milk of Geeta
sufficient for the whole world.
(1690) If you swim in this Geeta to your heart's contentment you will reach the non-duality; and if
merely you will give your tongue the exercise of reciting this aloud-
(1691) Even then, just as all the parts of an iron piece become gold though the magic stone touches it
at one point only.
