(1692) As soon as you will put even one line of a verse in the pot of recitation to your lips, you will
be nourished with the tonic of unity with Brahman.
(1693) Even you may not put the pot of recitation to your lips but turn your ear to it, then also the
result will be the same by hearing even a word or letter of this Geeta.
(1694) Just as a really rich and generous man does not turn any beggar away, Geeta gives liberation
and nothing short of liberation if you adhere to any means like listening, reading or meditation on
its meaning, whatever you like!
(1695) Therefore, only Geeta and Geeta alone should be adhered to, in the company of saintly
persons of self-knowledge. What are you going to do by following other sciences?
(1696) Further it should be noted that the sage Vyasa has put in a simple manner, the private heart-
to-heart talk between the Lord and Arjuna, so that anybody can as if see it objectively by putting it
on his palm.
(1697) For example, when a mother sits for feeding her child, she makes tiny morsels of the food,
easy for the child to take them in his mouth.
(1698) Or while wind is uncontrolled in the sky in its own element, man has invented a fan and made
the wind a useful thing for his comfort.
(1699) Similarly, the sage Vyasa has knitted in the format of Anushtubh meter, the knowledge which
is originally not possible to be put into words, and made it followable for women, Shoodras and
all.
(1700) Sirs! If pearls are not formed in the shells by the drops of rain falling during the period of
Swati star-constellation, how are they to adorn as ornaments on the beautiful bodies of young
women?
(1701) If sound is not produced by a musical instrument, how can we listen? If flowers are not there,
how can we smell them?
(1702) If food is not tasty, how can our tongue find it sweet? Without mirror, how can the eye see
itself?
(1703) If embodied Guru is not visible in person, whom is the disciple going to serve?
(1704) Similarly if the abstract Brahman had not been put into so many verses, how could anybody
have understood anything about it?
(1705) The world sees the sea as it is, though clouds are pulling water up from it: because, how can
a thing which has no measure, be known as reduced or increased?
