(1706) So, if that which is beyond the ken of speech, would not have been confined nicely in these
verses, how would our ears and minds have got the satisfaction?
(1707) Therefore, it is the greatest obligation on the world, by the sage Vyasa that he has compiled
the teachings of Lord Shrikrishna in these verses of Geeta.
(1708) And I have brought the same knowledge before you for your listening, by keeping my mind
continuously attentive to the terminology used by the sage Vyasa.
(1709) I am aware that I am officiously dabbling in the depths of the subject, where the intellects of
the sage Vyasa and others, only walk haltingly with lot of misgivings about their ability.
(1710) But this Lord of Geeta is easily the most amiable god. While he is wearing the beautiful
garland of the verses of sage Vyasa, he does not reject my humble bunch of little grass-blades of
Doorvas!
(1711) Sirs, is there no entry for a little insect to quench its thirst at the shore of the ocean of milk,
only because that shore is frequented by big elephants for drinking its milk?
(1712) A tiny young bird is somehow floating on the air though it has no wings strong enough to fly
high; and in the same sky, eagle is swiftly soaring to new heights!
(1713) The king swan walks with elegance on the earth, but does it mean that others should not walk
at all, according to their capacity?
(1714) Sirs, a big vessel can hold a lot of water in it, but does it mean that nobody should take a
handful of water in his mouth to wash it?
(1715) A torch is big and its light is also big enough, but is not a little wick having a tiny flame
according to its own size?
(1716) The reflection of the sky in the ocean is vast, but the same sky is having its small reflection in
a small pool of water.
(1717) Similarly, it is not logical to say that we should not step in this subject only because great
minds like that of sage Vyasa are delving deep into it.
(1718) Should not a small fish venture to swim in the sea, in which larger aquatic animals even of
the size of mount Mandar are roaming about?
(1719) Aruna, the driver of the chariot of the Sun sits very near the Sun, and sees him from very
near, but does not the little ant scurrying on the earth see the Sun as best as it can?
(1720) Therefore, it is not at all prohibited or undesirable that simple men like me should write
