(343) O Partha, he has no steadiness of mind at all, and he has no interest also in having steadiness.
(344) If there is no interest in steadiness, how can there be peace, O Arjuna?
(345) When there is no liking of peace, happiness never enters even by mistake. It is like the life of a
sinner which has no liberation.
(346) Please consider. If seeds are scorched in fire, and yet they sprout, then only it may be possible
for a turbulent mind to be happy.
(347) Therefore, uncontrolled mind is the totality of sorrow. For this, control of senses is the best
thing.
इंिदयाणां िह चरतां य मनोऽनुिवधीयते|
तद य हरित प ां वायुनाविमवा भिस
In the case of a person whose mind follows his senses which are running after sense-objects, that
mind usurps his intellect just like wind pulling away a boat in waters. (67)
(348) Those who act as their senses dictate, do not swim or ferry across the ocean of all sense-
objects, even though they appear to have been so ferried.
(349) Even though a boat is anchored near the shore, if it is beaten by a very strong wind, it is turned
upside down and danger previously averted confronts again.
(350) Similarly, even though a man might have achieved emancipation, he will be conquered by the
sorrow of worldly life if he, just for fun only, indulges in the tendencies of his sense organs.
त मा य महाबाहो िनगृहीतािन सवशः|
इंिदयाण िदयाथ य त य प ा पिति ता
Therefore, O, the warrior of strong arms, he whose senses are completely restrained from their
respective objects is the man with the steady intellect. (68)
(351) Therefore O Dhananjaya, it is more welcome if we ourselves can control our senses.
(352) You see, it is just like a tortoise which spreads its limbs as it wishes or itself withdraws them
as it again wishes.
(353) Similarly he whose sense-organs are under his control and act as he directs, should be known
to be one whose intellect has attained equilibrium.
(354) Now, O, Arjun, I will tell you one more deeper sign of a man who has attained completeness.
