Geeta in our Marathi language.
(1721) And will not the son who is closely following the footsteps of his father, reach the same
destination as his father will reach?
(1722) Similarly, unworthy as I may be, if I walk taking the path which the sage Vyasa and others
have taken and consulting the earlier great commentators, I shall reach the right destination-
where else can I go and how?
(1723) Further, by taking the virtue of forgiveness from whom the earth has become so tolerant of the
animate and inanimate things, and from whom the Moon takes nectar on loan and cools the world,
(1724) By taking the pure light from whom the Sun dissipates all the darkness,
(1725) From whom the sea got water, water got its sweetness, sweetness has got the beauty,
(1726) From whom the wind has its force, the sky its vastness, and knowledge has earned the royal
glory,
(1727) By whose grace Vedas have the sweetness of the speech, happiness has got enthusiasm, and
the whole universe has its beautiful shape.
(1728) That Master, Sadguru Nivruttinath, who obliges all, has entered in my consciousness and is
residing there.
(1729) Then what is so surprising if I put into proper words the discussions in the Geeta, in Marathi
language?
(1730) Sir, Ekalavya, the Bhilla from the mountains, prepared an earthen image of Guru
Dronacharya and studied Archery with faith in front of that image. Even in this way he could
disarm many an archer in the world because of his devotion to his Guru!
(1731) Trees near the sandalwood tree take up its fragrance, only by vicinity. The robe which the
sage Wasishtha had hung for drying, became so brilliant that it did the work of the Sun!
(1732) Compared to them, I am a living person and my Guru is so capable that by one glance of
grace, he can lift his disciple up to the level of Atman.
(1733) If our eyesight is perfect without any defect and over and above that, the Sun is helpful, then,
is there anything which we cannot see?
(1734) Then even my breathing may become great volumes of wisdom! Sirs! I, Dnyandeva, would
ask you- "Is there anything that cannot be successful by the grace of Guru?
