(1735) On this count only, I have used Marathi language and conveyed the meaning of Geeta to
people in such a way that they may visualize it by their eyes.
(1736) If these Marathi verses will be sung by anybody, there will be nothing wanting in the
captivating quality of his song.
(1737) Therefore, if somebody sets about to sing Geeta, it will be an ornament to his singing. Even if
somebody simply reads these words in prose, Geeta will not leave anything short in that
recitation.
(1738) An ornament if seen as it is, without wearing it, is also beautiful to look at. Then is it not
rather better to put it on?
(1739) If you take the example of pearls, they are definitely improving the beauty of gold, when they
are studded in it; but if not, they are not less attractive, if seen separately.
(1740) The white roundish Jasmine flowers blossomed in the spring season do not become less
fragrant either in a garland or when kept loose.
(1741) Similarly, I have written this book in ovi form in such a way that the quality of good singing
befits it, but even without singing also, it is equally sweet.
(1742) I have sewn the letters in the ovi meter in such a manner that they are having fragrance of the
bliss of Brahman and can be understood by everybody, even by children.
(1743) Now for the sake of fragrance, we have not to find out how many flowers there are on a
sandalwood tree.
(1744) Similarly, as soon as somebody listens to this book of ovis, he goes into a trance; then if he
listens to a discourse giving explanation of its meaning, will it not be enchanting to the mind?
(1745) Even by simply reciting it, the learning rises to its peak in such a way that even if a stream of
nectar may be flowing by one's side, one will not pay attention to it.
(1746) So, the poetic content of this book is so perfect that it produces profound peace, and we can
say that listening to this poetry has surpassed in quality, both the meditation and concentration on
its meaning.
(1747) By listening to this, anybody can gain the essential part of the joy of self- realization and will
have his sense organs well-nourished with aesthetic sensitivity.
(1748) The birds Chakora are directly enjoying the moon-light and getting satisfaction according to
their own capacity, but is not the benefit of moon-light available also for others?
