(1749) Similarly, in this spiritual science only wise persons can enjoy the deep secret of its
profound meaning, but others are also happy by the supremely attractive style of words, cleverly
used.
(1750) All this is really the greatness of my Guru Shri Nivrittinatha. Therefore, this is not only a
book, but the glory of his grace.
(1751) In the ancient times, near the shore of the ocean of milk, the lord Shankara revealed privately
to his dear wife the Shakti, the most secret knowledge.
(1752) That knowledge was heard by Matsyendra Nath, who was in the womb of a crocodile in that
ocean.
(1753) Matsyendra Natha met on the slopes of the hill of Saptashring, Yogi Chourangi Natha, who
was without hands and feet. By the kind vision of Matsyendra Natha, his limbs were restored and
he became strong as ever.
(1754) Then thinking that it was time to take Samadhi, Matsyendra Natha gave the key of the secret
knowledge to Goraksha Nath.
(1755) Matsyendra Natha bestowed upon Goraksha Natha all the spiritual authority, and gave him
the spiritual seat of his Sampradaya. Goraksha Natha is the pure lake of lotus flower of Yoga, and
the slayer of all sense-objects.
(1756) Then this knowledge which Goraksha Natha had received by succession, right from the Lord
Shankara was taught by him completely to Gahini Natha, the very reservoir of the joy of non-
duality.
(1757) He in turn, seeing that the evil forces of Kaliyuga (the Dark Age) are advancing, gulping
down all the beings very fast, gave orders to Nivritti Natha that –
(1758) "The treasure of knowledge and the way of imparting it received right from the Adishankara
through the succession of the teacher and the disciple,
(1759) Should be accepted by you, and you should hasten to save the Beings, who are being
swallowed by the evil forces of Kali."
(1760) Nivritti Natha is naturally very kind and over and above this, he received the orders of his
Guru. Therefore, he rose to the occasion with that force which the clouds of the rainy season
have, in order to save people, and give them peace.
(1761) This Geeta is the result of the downpour of the peace, which he achieved through the teaching
of the meaning of Geeta, which was the result of his compassion for people suffering from
sorrow.
