(1762) At that time, I eagerly stood before him with the eagerness of bird Chataka and thus I have
become successful in this adventure.
(1763) My great Guru has, in this way, given to me by this book, the treasure of spiritual trance in
the state of Atman, which he has received through the succession of Sampradaya.
(1764) If such is not the case, how could I become worthy of writing this book, when I do not read
much nor recite anything properly, nor know how to serve my teacher in the right manner?
(1765) Really, you should please note that my Guru has used me as an instrument and thus saved the
world by creating this book.
(1766) So I request that since I have been seated by my Guru before you to speak you may please
forgive me for any words used improperly or omitted, just like a mother forgives her son.
(1767) I have no knowledge how to use words, how to argue logically taking the subject to its
heights and what are the figures of speech, etc..
(1768) Just as the puppets dance as the holder of the strings wishes, so putting me in front of you, it
is my Guru only, who is speaking.
(1769) Therefore, I do not emphatically request you to forgive the errors if there are any in this
book, because my Guru has given me the job of only becoming a mouth-piece.
(1770) And if a man having no good qualities comes and stands before you who are saints, does not
become well-qualified, the blame goes to the lack of influence of the saints and in a playful way,
a person like me will be annoyed with you only.
(1771) If the low-grade iron does not get rid of its bad quality even by the touch of the magic-stone
'Parees,' then whose fault is it?
(1772) The ordinary stream has only one thing to do. It has to flow and merge into Ganges. Then if it
also does not become the Ganges, what is its fault there?
(1773) Thus, by my great good fortune, I have come to the feet of saints like you. Then what else is
there for me to achieve?
(1774) O the revered Guru Maharaj! By your great grace, you have afforded me this benefit of the
company of saints! Now all my aspirations are fulfilled.
(1775) O, my respected saints, because such a maternal home like your nearness is luckily available
to me, this child-like naughtiness of writing commentary on Geeta has become successful.
(1776) Sirs, perhaps the whole earth can be moulded into gold; or mountains like Meru made of the
