gems Chintamani can be built.
(1777) It may be easy to fill all the seven seas by nectar and it may not be much difficult to create
Moons from ordinary petty stars.
(1778) It is not perhaps very difficult to cultivate large gardens of divine Wish Trees, but it is not
easy to make clear the secret of Geeta.
(1779) I, being just like a mute person, has been able to express the meaning of Geeta in such a way
that all can see it by their eyes.
(1780) By crossing the whole sea of this great book of Geeta, I am holding the flag of fame in my
hand, and dancing with ecstacy like a dancer who dances in front of the procession of a marriage
ceremony.
(1781) I have built this temple of the meaning of Geeta, which appears like the mountain Meru
because of this dome of the last chapter, and I have established the image of my Guru in its shrine
room, and I am offering my worship to him.
(1782) A little child was lost and estranged from its kind-hearted and pious mother who is Geeta,
and was roaming about aimlessly, being stranded. It is by your great grace only, that this child has
again met its mother.
(1783) Sirs, I have spoken by understanding the minds of all of you. This is not a mere babble of the
child Dnyanadev.
(1784) What more can I say? By your blessing only I have been able to witness the grand ceremony
of completion of this book, and my life's purpose is fulfilled.
(1785) Every hope that I cherished in my heart, has been fulfilled by you, and therefore I am very
happy.
(1786) Sirs, we are laughing at the Sage Vishwamitra today because you have created such a great
book through me though I am very weak.
(1787) What laudable achievement is there in creating a world, which is eventually to be destroyed;
only to tease God the creator, with a purpose of giving some honorable place to the king
Trishanku? (which feat was achieved by the sage Vishwamitra.)
(1788) The Lord Shankara was pleased with Upamanyu, and gave him the ocean of milk, but that is
also not comparable to your grace, because that ocean of milk contained the most dangerous
poison Halahala.
(1789) It is true that when the whole world was covered by the demons of darkness, the Sun came to
