free and protect the world and destroy the darkness, but while doing so, he also harassed people
with his extreme heat.
(1790) No doubt, the Moon has poured down her cool rays, and satisfied the world, but how can that
Moon with dark patches on her face, stand in comparison with this great book?
(1791) Therefore, I again say that the creation of this book which the saints like you have done
through me has no equal anywhere.
(1792) Finally, it is all your own achievement that this religious sermon in the shape of this book has
become accomplished without hindrance, where my role is only of a courier servant.
Universal Prayers by the Saint Dhyaneshwara
(1793) Now, may the Universal God be pleased by this sacrifice, where the oblations are of the
speech, and by being so pleased, may He give me the following boon of His grace.
(1794) I request that the evil of the villains may be gone. Their interest in good deeds may increase,
and all the beings should have soulful friendship with each other.
(1795) The darkness of sins may be dissipated. Let there be the dawn of performance of our own
duty, in the universe, and then every being may receive what he really desires.
(1796) Let the hosts of Saints, who are having real faith in God, and who constantly pour down all
the auspicious things on the world, continuously meet all these beings.
(1797) The Saints who are the groups of moving divine 'Wish-trees', the Towns of living gems of
Chintamani, and the speaking Oceans of nectar,
(1798) Who are Moons without stigma, Suns without heat, may be related to all at all times.
(1799) Finally, let all the beings from the three worlds be completely happy in all respects and
worship continuously the Primordial God, the divine Purusha.
(1800) And especially in this world, those who live by the tenets of this book may be victorious
over the visible as well as the invisible worlds.’’
(1801) Upon this prayer, the great King, the Lord of the Universe said, "So be it. Let this be the
endowment of my grace!" By this boon, Dnyanadev became very happy.
(1802, 1803) Thus in the age of Kali in Maharashtra region, on the southern bank of the river
Godavari, there is a group of towns among which there is a very sacred and ancient place by
name Newase, in which is seated God Mohiniraj who is the thread of the life force of the
universe.
