yet yoke me to such a violent act; you should see the contradiction of it.
यािमशेणेव वा येन बुि ं मोहयसीव मे|
तदेक
ं वद िनि य येन शेयोऽ हमा नुयाम्
You are as if confusing my intellect by these seemingly self-contradictary statements. Therefore,
tell me definitely one thing by which I may obtain what is really good for me. (2)
(6) O Lord, if you yourself are talking like this, what can we do, ignorant that we are? Now, we may
quite say that the work of discrimination is finished.
(7) And if your advice is like this, what more degenerated thought can we find? We have fulfilled
our adventurous desire for self-knowledge!
(8) If the doctor prescribes for the patient a diet; and he himself gives poison as part of the diet, tell
me, how can the patient live?
(9) It is like a blind man misguided to go by a dangerous sidestreet, or a monkey being given liquor
to drink. Such is the good advice we have got from you!
(10) O Shrikrishna! I am already an ignorant man. Furthermore I am confused due to the feeling of
compassion. Therefore, I asked your better counsel!
(11) But you are telling strange things. There is quite a confusion in your advice. Should you behave
like this towards one who is your follower?
(12) We on our part keep our body, mind and soul, hanging on your words, and if you yourself are
doing this, let us say, the whole matter is dropped.
(13) If you are doing like this in the name of good advice, you are obliging us in a strange way! Why
should we yearn for knowledge? - So said Arjuna.
(14) He said further - “Anyway, knowledge is now out of question. There is something more. My
mind which was peaceful is now totally disturbed.
(15) O Shrikrishna, your nature is unscrutable. Perhaps you may be testing me by such a talk;
(16) I cannot really surmise it rightly whether you are teasing me or you really wish to convey
something deeper by your words which is implied in them.
(17) Therefore, please pay heed to me. Please do not speak vaguely in general terms. Tell me
exactly in clear and simple words.
(18) I am dull-witted. Therefore, O Shrikrishna, speak in such simple and definite terms that I will
