The Lord said, "O The sinless Arjuna! In the past I have expounded in this world two courses of
spiritual practice; one of Sankhyas, along the path of knowledge, and one of Karmayogis, along the
path of action. (3)
(32) Surprised at Arjuna’s statement, Lord Achyuta (Shrikrishna) said to Arjuna, “O Arjuna, the
meaning of my teaching is implicit -
(33) that while teaching the path of action with “intelligence” as the background, I have, in the flow
of speech, just made a reference to the doctrine of Sankhyas.
(34) You are not knowing my motive. Therefore you are disturbed in vain. Now please understand
that both paths were told in the past by me only.
(35) O! The great brave warrior! Please understand that these faiths which are beginningless, were
expounded by me only.
(36) One is called the ‘Yoga of knowledge’ which is practised by Sankhyas in which yoga, by
knowledge, the soul becomes one with the Paramatman.
(37) The other, you should recognize as the yoga of action, by which the seekers being experts in its
practice, in due time, attain liberation.
(38) Though these paths as such are two, in the end they are united, just as readymade food and food
prepared are both capable of giving the same satisfaction.
(39) Or it is like rivers which seem different when they flow either towards east or west, but they
become one in the end when they are merged into the ocean.
(40) Similarly both the paths of choice indicate only the final unity as aim, though the ways of
practising both the paths are different according to the capacity of the seekers.
(41) You see, how can a human being quickly reach a fruit on a tall tree, as a bird which can reach
by one flight only?
(42) The human being will walk slowly, and by following the path step by step will definitely reach
the fruit after some time.
(43) Similarly by the path chosen by the persons of the Sankhya doctrine, they take resort to
knowledge and attain the liberation quickly.
(44) The others who follow the yoga of action perform their duties fixed by their status and quality,
and after a certain time reach the state of completeness.
न कमणामनार भा नै क य पु षोऽश्नुते|
