इ ा भोगान् िह वो देवा दा य ते य भािवताः|
तैद ानपदाये यो यो भु े तेन एव सः
Pleased and respected by the sacrifice, the gods will surely give you all the desired pleasurable
things. He who enjoys the gifts given by them without offering them something in return, is
undoubtedly a robber. (12)
(101) Thus the very good fortune, as if embodied, will come searching for you.
(102) My dear, if you are performing your own duties, you will fulfil all your desires for joy, and
will be free of any hankering.
(103) But even after attaining all the riches, he who will follow the strong urges of his organs, by
being hooked to the taste of sense objects,
(104) And he who will not worship the Lord of the Universe with the riches given to him by the gods
pleased by the sacrifices.
(105) He who will not offer the sacred food to the sacrificial fire, will not worship gods and will
not give food to a Brahmin who comes at his house at the proper dinner-time;
(106) He who will turn away from devotion to Guru, who will not receive respectfully the guest and
will not give satisfaction to members of his caste;
(107) He who will be devoid of the performance of his own religious duties; who becomes very
puffed up by his pride, and will be only attached to sensual pleasures -
(108) He has in his lot very bad luck, by which, what is in his hands will be lost and even if objects
and things are there he will not be able to enjoy them.
(109) Just as in a body which has come to an end of its lifetime, spirit does not dwell any more, or
just as the goddess of riches - Laxmi - does not stay in the house of a luckless person.
(110) So, if the man lapses in his own duty, then all kinds of pleasures will be gone, being without
base, just as light is no more when a lamp is extinguished.
(111) So, where our own duty is neglected, freedom does not dwell’’ - Brahma said to the beings -
“Please listen further.”
(112) So, the Death-God will punish the man who will give up performance of his own religious
duties, and he will call this person a robber, and will snatch everything from him.
(113) Then all vices will round him up and possess him, just as ghosts in a cemetary at night.
