(114) And all the sufferings from all the three worlds and various sins as well as all the miseries
will come to stay with him.
(115) Such will be the plight of that uncontrolled man, and O! The beings of the three worlds! He
will not be able to escape them, however piteously he may cry upto the end of eternity.
(116) Therefore, one should not give up one’s duty, the sense-organs should not be allowed to go
wild, "- thus the God of Four Faces taught the beings.
(117) Just as the aquatic animals die as soon as they are out of water, so, this your own duty should
not be given up.
(118) “Therefore”, - He said - ‘‘You all should always be faithful to your appropriate actions.
य िश ािशनः स तो मु य ते सविकि बषैः|
भु जते ते वघं पापा ये पच या मकारणात्
The virtuous people who partake of what is left over after offering the food to Gods, in the
sacrifices, are absolved of all the blemishes. Those sinful people who cook for the sake of nourishing
their physical body alone are as if eating sin. (13)
(119) Please see. One who spends wisely the money one has got, in the performance of appropriate
duties without selfish motive.
(120) Who worships the Guru, the elders in the family, the fire, worships Brahmins when occasion
arises, and performs yadnya (sacrifices) for ancestors at the appointed times,
(121) And whatever remains after offering in the sacrifice, according to the codes of conduct in that
behalf,
(122) Is eaten by him happily in his house with his family members, which becomes itself the means
of washing away the blemishes.
(123) As he eats only the remaining food, sins leave him and go away, just as the great medicine
amrutasidhi, causes the leprosy to disappear.
(124) He does not get defiled by sins, just as a man firm in his principles does not become defiled
by even a little of confusion.
(125) So, whatever is earned through observing of our own duty, should be utilized for our own
duty, and whatever remains should be eaten with satis-faction.
(126) O Partha, you should not act otherwise than this; Lord Murari said - “Such is the history in a
